We are short shares of AtriCure, a $1.9bn medical device company that manufactures and sells 


ablation equipment used in the surgical treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF). At about 7x forward 


revenues, AtriCure’s valuation implies that the company’s outlook is brighter than at any point in the 


last decade. But with the company’s core surgical ablation market almost completely saturated, and 


the relentless improvements in catheter ablation technology accelerating, AtriCure is facing both 


rapidly decelerating revenue growth and the threat of technological obsolescence, simultaneously. 





At the root of AtriCure’s impending difficulties is the company’s reliance on surgical cardiac ablation 


procedures, which underlie roughly 80% of the company’s revenue. The overwhelming majority 


(over 90%) of these procedures are performed concomitantly with open-heart surgery that patients 


undergo irrespective of their AF – the chest is already open, so the surgeon takes some extra time to 


ablate the cardiac structures from which the AF originates. The problem for AtriCure is that, despite 


demographic tailwinds, the absolute number of open-heart surgeries has stagnated over the past 


decade as less invasive procedures, and earlier medical intervention, have successfully reduced the 


need for risky surgery. In stark contrast to AtriCure’s claims, about a tenth of these procedures are 


performed on patients with preoperative AF, and the proportion of these procedures involving a 


concomitant ablation has steadily doubled to about 80% over the last decade, leaving little room for 


growth through further penetration. AtriCure’s inability to turn a profit, even as it dominates an almost 


fully penetrated market, suggests that its core business is simply structurally unprofitable. 





With the plateauing of surgical ablation growth in clear sight, AtriCure has been making a strong 


push for its “minimally invasive” Convergent procedure. While surgical ablation is usually restricted 


to patients already undergoing open-heart surgery, Convergent’s minimally invasive nature aims to 


enable most of the benefits of surgical ablation on a stand-alone basis for all patients with persistent 


AF. Investor optimism about this market expansion has led to the explosion in AtriCure’s valuation.  





But Convergent will fail because it doesn’t consider the role of electrophysiologists at the center of 


AF treatment. For AtriCure’s gambit to succeed, EPs would have to refer their patients for a 


Convergent procedure, but they already perform catheter ablations on an outpatient basis, and 


without the risks of surgery. AtriCure claims that Convergent is far more effective for treating 


persistent AF than catheter ablation, but the EPs with whom we spoke found that claim laughable. 


The accelerating improvements in catheter ablation technology over the past decade have made it 


much easier for EPs to non-invasively create all the same cardiac lesions as Convergent. Asking 


EPs to split an ablation with a surgeon is tantamount to telling them they’re not skilled enough to do 


it on their own. We expect that to work out very poorly for AtriCure. 





Meanwhile, new technologies, particularly pulsed field ablation (PFA) and real-time electrical 


mapping, are set to dramatically advance catheter ablation. PFA creates lesions rapidly and 


precisely without any of the safety issues involved in thermal cardiac tissue ablation, while real-time 


cardiac mapping allows EPs to identify and eliminate sources of AF with much greater precision. The 


upshot is that catheter ablation is set to become safer, faster and more effective than ever, making 


any stand-alone surgical ablation – including Convergent – completely obsolete, while also 


encroaching on AtriCure’s core surgical business. As Convergent fails and surgical ablation gives 


way to less invasive treatment modalities, we expect that profits will continue to remain elusive and 


that AtriCure’s share price will suffer some ablation of its own. 





September 2020 


AtriCure, Inc. (ATRC) 
AtriCure Revenue Growth is Set to Short-Circuit 





Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC and its affiliates 
(collectively, “Kerrisdale”), have short positions in the stock of AtriCure, Inc. (the “Company”). Kerrisdale 
stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication, Kerrisdale 
may transact in the securities of the Company. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 
notice, and Kerrisdale does not undertake to update this report or any information herein. Please read our 


full legal disclaimer at the end of this report.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 2 

















Table of Contents 


I. INVESTMENT HIGHLIGHTS ........................................................................................................ 3 


II. COMPANY OVERVIEW ................................................................................................................... 9 


III. THE ILL-CONCEIVED CONVERGENT PROCEDURE WILL FAIL TO GAIN ANY 
TRACTION AGAINST CATHETER ABLATION IN PERSISTENT AF ................................... 13 


IV. THE ADDRESSABLE MARKET FOR ATRICURE’S CORE SURGICAL ABLATION 
BUSINESS IS SMALL AND SATURATED, WITH MEAGER GROWTH PROSPECTS ............ 19 


Despite a decade of growth and market penetration, and little direct competition, AtriCure remains 


unprofitable ....................................................................................................................................................................... 23 


V. NEW TECHNOLOGIES ARE REVOLUTIONIZING CARDIAC ABLATION TO THE 
DETRIMENT OF ATRICURE ...................................................................................................... 25 


Pulsed Field Ablation (PFA) is a revolution in the safety and speed of catheter ablation, and will render a lot 


of surgical ablation obsolete ........................................................................................................................................... 27 
Real-time mapping devices, such as those from Acutus, will change the ablation treatment paradigm to the 


detriment of AtriCure ...................................................................................................................................................... 29 


VI. CONCLUSION ................................................................................................................................ 31 


FULL LEGAL DISCLAIMER ................................................................................................................... 33
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 3 





I. Investment Highlights 
 


AtriCure will fail in its attempt to expand the surgical ablation market through the 


promotion of the Convergent procedure. AtriCure dominates the market for surgical ablation 


equipment used to treat atrial fibrillation (AF). Surgical ablation is generally performed by 


cardiac surgeons as an add-on to open-heart surgery at the end of the procedure. If a patient 


suffering AF undergoes bypass surgery, for example, the surgeon will take the opportunity of an 


open chest to ablate the cardiac tissue from which AF arrhythmias emanate. In almost every 


one of these procedures, the surgeon will also clip the patient’s left atrial appendage (LAA), the 


source of over 90% of AF-related strokes, using AtriCure’s AtriClip. Performing a concomitant 


ablation has become the standard of care for patients with preoperative AF and, as we discuss 


at length below, the proportion of these patients undergoing ablation during their surgeries has 


little room for further growth. 





AtriCure has long understood that this growth deceleration would eventually arrive, and it has 


long attempted to preempt it with a simple strategy: turn surgical ablation into a stand-alone 


procedure. Restricting surgical ablation to those who are already undergoing open-heart surgery 


severely limits the addressable market. On an annual basis, there are over five times as many 


patients suffering from AF that could benefit from an ablation as there are AF patients who 


undergo open-heart surgery.1 





The problem with surgical ablation though is the surgery. From a risk/benefit standpoint, it’s 


difficult for an EP to recommend cutting open a person’s chest in order to fix (or attempt to fix) a 


chronic condition that’s generally managed conservatively with medication, lifestyle 


adjustments, or cardioversion. At a certain degree of severity, an EP will treat AF by performing 


an ablation exclusively from the inside of the heart (endocardium) with a catheter that is inserted 


into the patient through the femoral veins. But stand-alone surgical ablation has remained 


incredibly rare. AtriCure has long tried to change that by trying to advance a variety of 


“minimally invasive” surgical ablation procedures, which would theoretically alleviate some of 


the risks of open-heart surgery and minimize recovery time for the patient. Each of these 


successive attempts over the course of the last decade has been quietly abandoned by AtriCure 


with little explanation, though it’s clear that the complication rates in trials of the procedures 


were unacceptably high – higher even than ablation complication rates in open-heart 


procedures – and thus wouldn’t meet the bar for device-approval by the FDA. 





Convergent, the minimally invasive procedure currently being touted by AtriCure, has avoided 


the safety issues that have plagued the company’s previous attempts. But like those failed 


procedures, its minimally invasive nature poses significant limitations. In the first half of the 


Convergent procedure, a surgeon gains access to the exterior of the heart (epicardium) by way 


                                                
1 This estimate is based on the total number of catheter ablations performed in the US annually, which 


AtriCure estimates at approximately 150k. 



https://www.heart.org/en/health-topics/arrhythmia/prevention--treatment-of-arrhythmia/cardioversion
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 4 





of a small abdominal incision through which a tubular ablation device is inserted. The small 


incision means the device can only access a small section of cardiac tissue for ablation – the 


posterior left atrial wall – leaving the pulmonary veins, which are the most frequent trigger of AF, 


untouched. As a result, Convergent requires a second procedure – a standard endocardial 


catheter ablation, performed by an EP, to isolate the pulmonary veins, which are the most 


frequent trigger source of AF.  





This “hybrid” approach to stand-alone ablation – combining a minimally invasive epicardial 


ablation with a standard endocardial catheter ablation – made some sense when the concept 


was first introduced about ten years ago. Pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) via catheter ablation 


was just being perfected, and it wasn’t effective in most patients suffering from persistent AF, in 


which other areas of the heart besides the pulmonary veins also triggered arrhythmias. The 


addition of a minimally invasive procedure to ablate some of those other sources – as 


Convergent does with the posterior wall – would improve the efficacy of ablation for these 


patients. 





The problem for AtriCure and Convergent, is that the ability to conduct complete posterior-wall 


isolation (PWI) as part of a standard catheter ablation has advanced dramatically in recent 


years. That’s why the results of the recent CONVERGE IDE trial – hailed as some sort of 


conclusive victory for hybrid ablation procedures by AtriCure and its investors – are totally 


irrelevant, and even misleading. In the trial, two groups of patients with persistent AF were 


treated with ablation: the experimental arm underwent the Convergent procedures while the 


control arm underwent a catheter ablation that included only a PVI. Not shockingly, a larger 


percentage of the experimental group (68%) were free from AF 12 months post-procedure than 


the control group (50%). But the superiority of more extensive ablation – a combination of PVI 


and PWI compared to PVI-only – was never in doubt. That combination, though, can be 


accomplished more safely, and just as effectively, in a single catheter ablation procedure than in 


two ablation procedures, the first of which is a minimally invasive surgery.  





Study after study has shown that a catheter procedure that isolates both the PVI and PWI can 


durably control AF as well as, or better than, the Convergent procedures did in the CONVERGE 


experimental group. None of this is lost on electrophysiologists. Every single EP we spoke with 


– and even some of the surgeons – was quick to point out the CONVERGE design flaws, and 


asserted their ability to perform a dual PVI/PWI ablation solely with a catheter in an outpatient 


procedure, sparing the patient a hole in the abdomen, a night in the hospital, and a longer 


recovery time. This doesn’t bode well for the uptake of Convergent – surgeons can only perform 


the procedure if they get a referral from…the patient’s electrophysiologist. Considering that EPs 


are supremely confident in their ability to isolate both cardiac structures, we expect Convergent 


to be a massive commercial failure, ending up exactly like AtriCure’s previous attempts to 


popularize stand-alone surgical ablation.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 5 





AtriCure has been disingenuous about the addressable market for its surgical ablation 


products. The truth is that the market is small and already well-penetrated. AtriCure has 


long claimed (going back to investor presentations in 2010) that the total addressable market 


(TAM) for its core concomitant surgical ablation devices is about 85k patients annually. Given 


the approximately 300k open-heart surgery procedures performed in the US each year, 


AtriCure’s claim is that just under a third of them are undergone by patients with pre-operative 


AF. Of these, Atrciure further claims that only about 20-25% – or 17k-21k patients – undergo an 


ablation. The implication for investors is clear: AtriCure’s core business has many years of 


robust growth ahead as it continues to increase concomitant ablation penetration rates. 





But AtriCure’s contentions regarding the addressable patient population and penetration rates 


are so inflated, it’s hard to believe the company is not intentionally misleading investors. The 


Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS), the specialty society dedicated to cardiac surgery, 


maintains an adult cardiac surgery database (ACSD) that keeps detailed records on over 95% 


of all cardiac operations performed in the US annually. ACSD records are available for 


research, and the clinical literature that has resulted from a thorough analysis of these records 


paints a completely different picture of the addressable market than the TAM claims made by 


AtriCure: 





 The most comprehensive study of the incidence of preoperative atrial fibrillation found that 


of the approximately 840k cardiac surgeries that took place between July 2011 and June 


2014, about 90k patients would have been candidates for surgical ablation due to pre-


operative AF. In other words, slightly more than 10% of patients undergoing open-heart 


surgery would be candidates for a surgical ablation – a third of the addressable patient 


population claimed by AtriCure. 


 That same study found that over the 3 years studied, about 50% of patients with 


preoperative AF underwent ablations. In fact, the proportion of patients undergoing a 


concomitant ablation steadily increased over the three years studied, reaching over 60% by 


early 2014, a far cry from the 20-25% figure that AtriCure has been asserting for 10 years. 


 By 2018, with the number of open-heart surgeries below the annual averages earlier in the 


decade, the penetration rate of concomitant ablation in open heart surgeries reached close 


to 75%. 





In 2017, the STS finally issued a Class I recommendation for concomitant surgical ablation at 


the time of open-heart surgery, so while the 2019 data will not be compiled until early next year, 


it’s safe to assume that 2019 saw another significant jump in the penetration rate of concomitant 


ablation, as the STS guidelines continued to gain traction. This is confirmed by the volume 


growth demonstrated by AtriCure last year in its open ablation segment. Our discussions with 


an array of cardiac surgeons from around the country further confirmed that it’s rare for a patient 


with preoperative AF to undergo surgery without a concomitant ablation.  


 



https://www.annalsthoracicsurgery.org/article/S0003-4975(17)30690-2/fulltext

https://www.annalsthoracicsurgery.org/article/S0003-4975(16)31615-0/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 6 





Debates surrounding TAM size might be irrelevant for a company attacking a new market, but 


for AtriCure, the data indicates that the surgical ablation market is much smaller than the 


company’s claims, and almost fully penetrated at that. The devices sold through the company’s 


Open Ablation and Appendage Management segments – which comprised 80% of US revenues 


in 2019, and 65% of total revenue – are sold into this market. The clear implication of the ACSD 


data is that, without the prospective success of Convergent – which we expect will fail – the 


growth engine for AtriCure’s core business is all but tapped out. 





An array of new technologies is changing the way catheter ablation procedures are 


performed, making them more effective, fast, and safe. AtriCure’s devices stand to lose 


out. In the medium-term, the biggest risk to AtriCure is that new technologies are making 


catheter ablation an even more robust ablation modality. The knock on catheter ablation has 


historically been that an endocardial catheter, even at the direction of the most skilled EP, 


cannot create the array of lesion sets that a surgeon does when performing a Cox-Maze IV 


ablation in an open-heart setting. As ablation practice has matured, though, it has become clear 


that a full Cox-Maze IV procedure is almost never necessary; a narrower focus on isolating the 


pulmonary veins, which can easily be achieved by catheter alone, is enough to restore normal 


rhythm in the vast majority of paroxysmal AF patients. For patients with persistent AF a variety 


of lesion sets, in addition to PVI, have been suggested over time, with the CONVERGE trial 


confirming the long-held view of several prominent EPs that complete ablation of the posterior 


wall is particularly helpful. 





As mentioned previously, PW ablation can be performed by EPs via catheter. The procedure 


has had a reputation for being more laborious than PVI alone due to the physical size of the 


posterior wall, and for carrying a small risk of critical esophageal damage given the proximity of 


the esophagus to the posterior wall. But PW ablation via catheter has advanced significantly 


over the past 5 years through the introduction of new catheter technologies such as contact 


force (CF) and multi-electrode esophageal temperature probes, as well as improvements in 


procedural methodology, such as the broad adoption of high-power/short-duration ablation. The 


advances have made PW ablation via catheter safer, as well as quicker and more effective. 





Two recently introduced technologies are set to enhance the safety and efficacy of catheter 


ablation so dramatically, they will almost certainly destroy any remaining rationale for minimally 


invasive surgical ablation of the kind that AtriCure has incessantly tried – and failed – to 


promote. We expect that they will also begin to cannibalize concomitant surgical ablation 


procedures, threatening AtriCure’s core open ablation business. 





The first is pulsed field ablation (PFA). PFA uses a technique called electroporation, in which 


electric pulses are applied to the cardiac tissue, permanently damaging the tissue through the 


structural destabilization of cell membranes. PFA has two major benefits: 


 



https://www.esosure.com/

https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(18)31251-7/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 7 





 The electroporation is tissue-specific – the pulsed electric fields can be calibrated so that 


they only impact the cardiac tissue, leaving the esophagus, proximal nerve cells, and any 


vasculature totally untouched. This makes PFA far safer than the thermal energy sources 


used in radiofrequency (RF) ablation or cryoablation approaches currently used in both 


catheter and surgical ablation. 


 Rapidity – electroporation allows for the creation of tissue-destroying lesions to large areas 


of the myocardium, essentially instantaneously. Both RF and cryoablation take a long time, 


because the energy is applied to the tissue over a longer period so that the whole thickness 


of the cardiac wall is impacted. 





PFA has already been studied in a large number of trials, and continues to quickly gain 


credibility. In the recent Heart Rhythm Society conference, several clinical abstracts with 


accompanying presentations highlighted both the safety and efficacy of the procedure. These 


were results obtained from the first generation of PFA systems, prior to any significant 


optimization that is in the process of being conducted. At least two startups, Farapulse and 


Affera, as well as industry giants Medtronic and Abbott, are currently conducting a large number 


of trials with an array of different PFA approaches and devices. We expect the first generation of 


these devices to hit EP labs within the next 3-4 years, dealing the final blow to any rationale for 


broad adoption of hybrid/minimally-invasive surgical ablation approaches. Farapulse is also 


conducting a trial with its Epi Faraone device, which has already been used successfully in a 


small scale trial to create the classic Cox-Maze IV lesion set in the context of a concomitant 


procedure. In the open-heart setting, speed is of the essence and PFA will soon be threatening 


AtriCure’s competitive position in what has historically been its core business. 





The other technology we believe will challenge the logic for minimally invasive surgical ablation 


is Acutus Medical’s AcQMap system. The difficulty with AF is that, even today, the actual source 


of the arrhythmias is uncertain. For persistent AF, non-pulmonary-vein triggers are known to 


play a significant role, and even the posterior wall is not always the answer. EPs can map the 


electrical activity of the heart in order to try and identify the AF triggers, but current mapping 


systems are contact-based and generate an electrical map of the heart that’s a reconstruction of 


various data points obtained over the course of 20 minutes. Acutus’ system is contactless and 


can generate a usable map of single points in time in less than 3 minutes. As a result, an EP 


can rapidly determine the physical location that is the source of the patient’s AF, and target that 


area for ablation. In the prospective UNCOVER-AF trial, which reported data last year, EPs 


using the AcQMap technology achieved procedural efficacy – exclusively via catheter ablation – 


that was superior to that demonstrated by AtriCure in the CONVERGE trial. The implication, 


which Acutus continues to explore via trials, is that a more precise view of a patient’s 


arrhythmias can lead to treatment that is safer and faster than, but as effective as, the shotgun 


approach to ablation advocated by the surgical field, including AtriCure. 





Acutus’s technology is already commercialized, and PFA is headed there shortly. While we 


expect the uptake on AtriCure’s Convergent procedure and the associated devices will be 



https://farapulse.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/PR_HRS-2020-Online-Data-v5.pdf

https://farapulse.com/

https://www.affera.com/

http://newsroom.medtronic.com/news-releases/news-release-details/medtronic-receives-fda-approval-trial-evaluating-new-energy

https://farapulse.com/#products

https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/10.1161/CIRCEP.119.007233
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 8 





incredibly disappointing for investors, whatever modicum of success that AtriCure might achieve 


initially with its minimally invasive devices will be completely extinguished by the rapid 


improvements in efficacy, safety, and speed being achieved in the electrophysiology lab. 





AtriCure is structurally unprofitable, even after having grown at a double digit rate for a 


decade. Since 2012, AtriCure’s total revenue has more than tripled, with its domestic open-


heart ablation business growing at a 13.5% CAGR, and its domestic AtriClip business having 


grown by a factor of 10. The growth has been a reflection of the swift adoption of concomitant 


surgical ablation on the part of cardiac surgeons, and the even swifter adoption of the AtriClip as 


the almost-automatic choice for surgeons to clip the left atrial appendage in patients undergoing 


a concomitant ablation. Strangely though, almost every metric on the company’s income 


statement has shown nothing in the way of operating leverage: 





 Gross margins are not meaningfully different: 73.8% in 2019 vs 71.2% in 2012 


 The rate of R&D spend has remained constant at 17.9% vs 17.3% over that time 


 The rate of SG&A spend as a percentage of revenue has in fact increased from 64.3% in 


2012 to 70.3% in 2019. 





It’s difficult to understand how a company that has achieved close to maximum penetration of its 


core products has so poorly managed to translate that into profit, or even positive EBITDA, or 


even exhibit some degree of leverage. The number of AtriCure domestic sales reps has grown 


15% annually since 2012, compared to a 20% CAGR for domestic revenues, so even from the 


narrow vantage point of sales expenses the company hasn’t generated almost any operating 


leverage once adjusting for moderate increases in compensation and ASPs. Research and 


development expenses have also remained elevated as a percentage of revenue, given the 


degree of competition and technological advance that have characterized cardiac ablation. 





AtriCure is a relatively small player operating a structurally unprofitable business that’s 


positioned to be overwhelmed by the near-term changes in ablation practice. Even if it could 


grow in the future like it did in the past, it’s unlikely that shareholders would benefit – its overall 


18.5% annual revenue growth rate since 2012 looks pedestrian in the context of the 15.7% 


growth in the share count over that time. But AtriCure can’t continue to grow at that pace – we 


expect that its core business will imminently hit the proverbial wall, and that its hope for growth 


is sure to fail. At 7.5x 2019 revenues, investors are paying way too high a price for a company 


with growth prospects this poor.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 9 





II. Company Overview 





AtriCure: Capitalization and Financial Results 
 





Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis 
 





Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a relatively common arrhythmia (irregular heart rhythm) that causes 


rapid heart rate and is associated with increased risk of heart failure, dementia, and stroke. 


Symptomatic AF usually begins as paroxysmal – in other words, the patient will experience 


occasional episodes of arrhythmia that, when symptomatic, can manifest as palpitations, 


fainting, lightheadedness, shortness of breath, or chest pain. If not treated (and sometimes even 


if treated), AF can progress to become persistent, which means that the episodes of arrhythmia 


last for longer than seven days, and from there it can progress to longstanding persistent AF, 


which means the patient has had uninterrupted AF for over a year. Left untreated, AF 


significantly increases a patient’s risk for heart failure, stroke, and dementia. 





The classifications – paroxysmal vs. persistent vs. longstanding-persistent – are not mutually 


exclusive: patients can suffer episodes of more than one kind. They’re also important because 


they’ve been shown to be loosely correlated with the AF trigger. Normally, the sinoatrial node – 


a group of cells in the wall of the heart’s right atrium – spontaneously generates electrical 


impulses that travel through the heart causing it to contract. This is done continuously, which 


sets the heart’s natural rhythm. In an arrhythmia, the electrical conduction is dysregulated, 


which causes the heart to beat irregularly. The underlying causes and proximate triggers for that 


dysregulation have been difficult to precisely identify. In atrial fibrillation, the dysregulation is 


most frequently triggered by electrical impulses emanating from the left atrium near the 


pulmonary veins and, over time, the area from which the arrhythmia is triggered expands 


beyond that. 





AF is generally treated with recommendations for lifestyle changes (diet, exercise, etc.) and 


medication, the latter of which is targeted at either reining in the rapid heart rate or the irregular 


rhythm. In 1987, surgeon James Cox innovated a procedure called “cut and sew” in his open-


heart surgery patients suffering from AF. He literally cut through various portions of the heart
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 10 





and sewed them back together, aiming to create scar tissue that would block the abnormal 


electrical impulses causing AF, while guiding the regular impulses to their normal atrial 


destinations. That procedure has evolved over the last 35 years, culminating in what is now 


called the Cox-Maze IV (CM-IV) procedure, which similarly aims to ablate various portions of 


cardiac tissue – either with heat-generating radiofrequency energy or with the ice-crystal 


formation of cryoablation – in order to block errant AF electrical impulses.2 





AtriCure’s core business has historically been the design and sale of the RF and cryo devices 


used by surgeons performing CM-IV (as well as other more limited ablations) concomitantly with 


open-heart surgery. The popularity of this procedure has exploded in the last 5-10 years, and 


AtriCure’s Open-Heart Ablation segment has grown revenue at a 13.5% annual rate from 2012 


through 2019. Over that time, AtriCure has also used the increasing prevalence of concomitant 


ablation to successfully promote the AtriClip, a relatively simple, but extraordinarily effective, 


device used by surgeons to “clip” a patient’s left atrial appendage (LAA) during open-heart 


surgery. The LAA is known to be the origin for over 90% of the clots that result in AF-related 


strokes, and sealing it shut stops the flow of blood into (and out of) it, markedly reducing the risk 


of stroke. AtriCure’s open-heart ablation devices and its AtriClip together amounted to about 


80% of total 2019 revenues, highlighting the company’s current dependence on procedures 


performed concomitantly with open-heart surgery. 
 


Posterior view of the heart 
 





Source: Medical Gallery of Blausen Medical 
 





                                                
2 For an exhaustive description of the Cox-Maze IV procedure, see Robertson J et al, Illustrated 


techniques for performing the Cox-Maze IV procedure through a right mini-thoracotomy  



https://en.wikiversity.org/wiki/WikiJournal_of_Medicine/Medical_gallery_of_Blausen_Medical_2014

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3904342/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3904342/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 11 





Of course, only a small proportion of patients suffering from AF undergo open-heart surgery, 


and full-blown surgical ablation is too risky and invasive to perform on a stand-alone basis. 


While most patients are adequately treated with medication (for rate-control or rhythm-control) 


or an electrical cardioversion,3 those who are refractory or intolerant of those treatments are 


candidates for catheter ablation. Catheter ablation for the treatment of AF is relatively new: it 


was only in 1998 that Michel Haissaguerre and his colleagues mapped the origin of the 


electrical triggers for AF, locating them next to the pulmonary veins (see the diagram below).4 


Haissaguerre was only moderately successful in his original attempts at an ablation procedure 


performed via catheter, which aimed to isolate the pulmonary veins thereby disrupting the path 


of the errant arrhythmia-inducing impulses. That procedure has since progressed into the 


standard “wide area circumferential ablation” (WACA), also known as “pulmonary vein antral 


isolation” (PVAI or PVI), that is depicted in the diagram below. 





Evolution of pulmonary vein isolation (PVI) via ablation 
 





The shaded areas depict the locations in the endocardium that would be ablated, 


with the initial PVI procedure ablating the 4 pulmonary veins separately closer to 


the veins, while the evolved procedure performed two wide ablations, one on each 


side of the left atrial posterior wall, to block electrical signals emanating from near 


the pulmonary veins. 





Source: Japanese Circulation Society 
 





The problem with PVI, though, was that it only targeted AF triggers adjacent to the pulmonary 


veins. In a small number of patients with paroxysmal AF, and in a larger number of patients with 


more persistent forms of AF, PVI was not effective at preventing the recurrence of AF, implying 


that there were other trigger sites for AF. But identifying those trigger sites has been difficult. 


The posterior wall of the left atrium, which is physically connected to the PVs, has long been 


hypothesized as a non-PV trigger, with a long list of studies dating back to at least 2007 strongly 


                                                
3 For a broad discussion of electrical cardioversion in atrial fibrillation, see Sucu M et al, Electrical 


Cardioversion. For an analysis of the success rate of cardioversion in patients with AF, see e.g., Hellman, 


T et al, Prediction of ineffective elective cardioversion of atrial fibrillation: a retrospective multi-center 


patient cohort study. Hellman’s findings are broadly similar to other survey literature on cardioversion 


success rates for treating AF.  
4 Haïssaguerre, M et al Spontaneous Initiation of Atrial Fibrillation by Ectopic Beats Originating in the 


Pulmonary Veins 



http://www.j-circ.or.jp/english/sessions/reports/70th/sym01-yamane-z1.htm

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2813644/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC2813644/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5241921/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5241921/

https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejm199809033391003

https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejm199809033391003
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 12 





suggesting the superiority of combined PVI and PW ablation, compared to PVI alone, in patients 


with persistent AF. Other trigger sites that have been hypothesized include the superior vena 


cava, the coronary sinus, and the left atrial appendage, among others.5 





Evidence for the posterior wall’s role in triggering AF has recently been strengthened by the 


CONVERGE clinical trial run by AtriCure. CONVERGE compared two groups of AF patients 


with a range of severities from paroxysmal to longstanding persistent. The first group underwent 


the Convergent procedure, which is in fact a set of two procedures – 1) a minimally invasive 


surgical procedure, in which AtriCure’s EPi-Sense device was inserted into the chest cavity 


through a subxiphoid incision (right below the sternum/breastbone) and used to perform an 


epicardial ablation of the posterior wall, and 2) a traditional endocardial catheter-based PVI.6 


The control group just underwent a slightly modified catheter-based PVI (see below for a 


comparison of the lesion sets). After a year, a higher proportion of patients in the Convergent 


arm (68%) compared to the control arm (50%) were totally free from any atrial arrhythmia. 





Comparison of the CONVERGE Convergent and control group ablations 
 








On the left is a depiction of the Convergent Procedure lesion sets: blue capsules represent the area 


ablated by the EPi-Sense device during the minimally invasive surgical procedure (the left atrial 


posterior wall) and red dots represent the catheter-based PVI ablation. On the right is a depiction of 


the modified PVI performed on the control group. 





Source: AtriCure investor presentation, Kerrisdale analysis 
 





                                                
5 For a review of the various hypotheses advanced over the years, see Briceno, D et al Beyond 


Pulmonary Vein Isolation in Nonparoxysmal Atrial Fibrillation 
6 A good visualization of the epicardial procedure was produced by AtriCure and can be found here 



https://www.cardiacep.theclinics.com/article/S1877-9182(20)30014-9/abstract

https://www.cardiacep.theclinics.com/article/S1877-9182(20)30014-9/abstract

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SzM8oNZSPVs
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 13 








There are two ways to interpret the CONVERGE results. AtriCure’s interpretation is that the 


“hybrid” Convergent procedure(s), which combines a surgical epicardial ablation using an 


AtriCure device and a catheter endocardial ablation, is superior to performing a catheter 


ablation alone. That’s not what we heard from the electrophysiologists with whom we spoke, 


who explained that the novelty of the CONVERGE trial was that an RCT finally proved the 


efficacy of ablating the posterior wall in patients with persistent AF. Of course, that PW ablation 


could be accomplished with a catheter too. The relative efficacy of the two Convergent 


procedures – one of which requires an abdominal incision, general anesthesia, and an overnight 


hospital stay, with the attendant risks of surgery – was just an artifact of the CONVERGE trial 


design: the control arm patients underwent a PVI alone, rather than a combined PVI and PW 


ablation via catheter. Had they undergone a catheter procedure that applied all the same lesion 


sets as the Convergent arm, their results would have been similar because a PW ablation is 


simply not unique to the Convergent procedures. As a result, nothing about the CONVERGE 


results should be interpreted as endorsing minimally invasive surgery. 


III. The ill-conceived Convergent procedure will fail to gain 


any traction against catheter ablation in persistent AF 





It was always understood by AtriCure’s management team that limiting surgical ablation 


primarily to patients who were undergoing open-heart surgery would severely restrict the 


company’s addressable market. The saturation of the concomitant ablation market (which, as 


we discuss in the next section, has already occurred) would leave AtriCure with no catalyst for 


growth in its primary business. That’s why the company has tried multiple times to extend the 


domain of surgical ablation from concomitant procedures to the stand-alone setting. If only 


surgical ablation could just be performed on its own, the addressable patient population could 


expand by over 5x, with an even larger addressable revenue opportunity given the higher ASPs 


of minimally invasive surgical devices. 





Since 2005, with the initiation of the RESTORE-SR II trial, AtriCure has tried to develop a 


minimally invasive surgical ablation procedure that would require only minor incisions in the 


patient’s chest through which an ablation device could be inserted. At the beginning of this 


process, the minimally invasive procedure was aimed at performing primarily a PVI with some 


optional ablative lesions.7 Over time though, AtriCure abandoned the idea of a pure stand-alone 


ablation in favor of a “hybrid” approach. A hybrid ablation is actually two separate procedures: 


initially, a minimally invasive epicardial ablation would be performed by a surgeon on non-


pulmonary-vein AF triggers (posterior wall, LAA, etc.). That would be followed up with a catheter 


ablation by an electrophysiologist, who would isolate the pulmonary veins.  





                                                
7 That is the clear implication of the description and outcome measures of the RESTORE-SR IIB trial, 


which was a follow up to the RESTORE-SR II trial that seems to have never been adequately enrolled. 


The role of triggers beyond the pulmonary veins was not well-understood 15 years ago. 



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1323885/000119312506165828/dex991.htm

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00571779
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 14 





The shift to hybrid ablation was an implicit admission on behalf of AtriCure of two critical points 


we believe are once again relevant in assessing the Convergent procedures. First, by 2010, the 


efficacy of catheter ablation had improved quite a bit since the discovery of PV triggers in 1998. 


There was no longer any doubt that a patient with paroxysmal AF could be treated exclusively 


via endocardial catheter ablation, with no need for a surgical epicardial ablation. Second, a 


surgical ablation – concomitant or stand-alone – almost always required a referral from the 


patient’s EP. An EP wouldn’t hesitate to recommend a surgical ablation for a patient already 


undergoing open-heart surgery, but would almost never recommend a stand-alone surgical 


ablation that could be performed entirely by catheter. Hence, AtriCure focused on the ablation of 


non-PV triggers during the surgical portion of the hybrid procedures it was developing: an EP 


might recommend a hybrid ablation if they believed a patient’s AF was sufficiently advanced that 


a catheter-PVI alone would not suffice. 





Several attempts by AtriCure at innovating a hybrid procedure have so far failed. In 2010, the 


company launched the DEEP AF trial, its first attempt at a hybrid procedure. The two 


procedures would be arranged in rapid succession, with the catheter ablation taking place 


immediately after the surgical ablation. AtriCure cut the trial off early, blaming “scheduling and 


logistical challenges.” More likely though is that awful safety data virtually guaranteed that the 


device would not be approved for the procedure: 7 of the 24 enrolled patients experienced 


primary adverse events related to the procedure, including one death, highlighting the risks 


inherent in surgically treating AF on a stand-alone basis. Efficacy was probably also subpar 


considering that AtriCure never followed up with the data that was surely available for the 24 


trial enrollees.  





In its second attempt, AtriCure enrolled patients for the same hybrid procedure as in the DEEP 


AF trial, but staged the two ablations 1-10 days apart from each other. The safety data this time 


around was even worse, with 6 of the 25 enrolled patients suffering from a “serious device or 


procedure-related adverse event,” and 12 patients suffering from serious adverse events in the 


24 months following the procedures.8 The DEEP procedure assessed in both of these failed 


trials is the subject of still another trial that is expected to read out in early 2024, but it’s not 


something we expect will ever gain much adoption. Surgeons with whom we spoke described 


the procedure as very technically challenging, which explains the high rate of adverse events, 


and said they hadn’t heard about anyone performing it recently, portraying it as a relic of a 


different era.  





In the wake of the failures of the DEEP trials, and the high rates of associated adverse events, 


AtriCure adjusted its hybrid strategy and in 2015 acquired nContact Surgical, which had 


developed the Convergent procedure and the device with which it would be performed (the EPi-


Sense Coagulation Device). Convergent is much simpler than DEEP in that it requires a single 


subxiphoid incision through which the ablation device is inserted into the patient’s chest cavity, 


rather than the 3 surgical punctures next to the ribs that the DEEP procedure requires. It’s also 


more modest in its aims: while DEEP included multiple epicardial lesion sets in the surgical 


                                                
8 The full results of the trial can be found in the “Results” tab of the clinical trial record.  



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01246466

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01246466

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1323885/000119312511315087/d257625dex991.htm

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/study/NCT01661205

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02393885

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/results/NCT01661205
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 15 





portion of the procedure, Convergent is focused only on ablation of the posterior wall.9 The 


overall reduction in complexity would theoretically reduce the rate of adverse events, while 


potentially increasing the adoption rate among surgeons.  





At the time of the acquisition, nContact had already initiated a randomized controlled trial – 


CONVERGE – which sought to compare the efficacy of the Convergent hybrid procedure to that 


of PVI by catheter ablation. The 153 patients with persistent or longstanding-persistent AF 


participating in the trial were randomized 2:1 into two arms: 





 The Hybrid Convergent Arm, in which 102 patients underwent an epicardial surgical ablation 


of the left atrial posterior wall using the EPi-Sense device at the hands of a surgeon, 


followed by an endocardial ablation via catheter by an EP. 


 The Endocardial Catheter Ablation arm, in which 51 patients underwent only a catheter 


ablation using commercially approved RF catheters. 





The primary effectiveness endpoint was freedom from AF, atrial tachycardia (AT), and atrial 


flutter (AFL) as measured by a 24-hour Holter monitor 12 months after the procedure (AT and 


AFL are other atrial arrhythmias that can present in AF patients undergoing ablation). The 


procedures would be considered effective even if patients went back to their anti-arrhythmic 


drugs (AADs), as long as they were only taking the same drug that had previously failed, and at 


the same dose. 





That trial was completed in August of last year, with the results presented by AtriCure at the 


recent Heart Rhythm Society conference in May: 





 In the Convergent arm, 67.7% of patients were free from AF/AFL/AT at 12 months, while 


in the Endocardial Catheter Ablation arm, that proportion was only 50%.  


 Through 30 days post-procedure, the Hybrid Convergent arm had “only” 8 patients – 7.8% 


of the group – experience a severe primary adverse event.  


 AtriCure did not disclose how many patients continued on the AAD to which they were 


previously refractory. 





Having seemingly demonstrated an “acceptable safety profile and superior effectiveness when 


compared to endocardial catheter ablation alone for the treatment of persistent AF” in an RCT, 


AtriCure’s contention is that CONVERGE is definitive proof of the utility of a stand-alone surgical 


ablation procedure. But a detailed examination of the trial design and the results suggests that 


Convergent will end up at the same impasse as AtriCure’s prior minimally invasive endeavors – 


an overly complicated procedure offering few incremental benefits for the incremental cost. 





The major flaw in the trial design is that the catheter ablation control group just isn’t comparable 


to the Convergent group. The control group underwent a PVI (along with a “roof line” ablation, 


                                                
9 A detailed discussion of the DEEP procedure is undertaken by Jared Beller and colleagues in Beller, J, 


et al, Minimally Invasive Atrial Fibrillation Surgery: Hybrid Approach 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT01984346

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4847967/
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 16 





which creates a lesion along the roof of the posterior wall connecting the pulmonary veins on 


each side – see the diagram on page 12), whereas the Convergent arm underwent a full 


ablation of the posterior wall. By the standards of 2013, which is when the trial was designed by 


nContact, the comparison made some sense, as ablating the posterior wall via catheter was a 


technique that was still early in its development. But by today’s standards, a proper assessment 


of Convergent would compare the Convergent procedures with a catheter-based procedure that 


ablates the pulmonary veins and the entire posterior wall. 





In fact, there have been multiple studies of the efficacy of a combined PVI and PW ablation 


performed via catheter: 





 In a prospective (but admittedly non-randomized) study published in January of 2016, Bai 


and colleagues split 52 consecutive patients with persistent AF into a group of 20 that 


underwent a PVI alone, and a group of 32 that had an additional ablation of the posterior 


wall. Both groups underwent two RF-catheter ablation procedures, which makes them 


comparable to the patients undergoing Convergent, itself composed of two procedures. Of 


the group that underwent PVI and PW ablation, 65% were free of AF/AT/AFL at 12 


months compared to only 20% of the group that underwent PVI alone. None of the 


members in the experimental group were on anti-arrhythmic drugs (AADs) at 12 months, 


and the adverse event rate was less than 2%. Importantly, the study was conducted at the 


end of 2010, in the very early days of PW ablation via catheter.10 


 A prospective randomized study conducted in South Korea between 2011 and 2012 


compared two groups of 60 persistent AF patients undergoing catheter ablation. The first 


group underwent a PVI plus a roof line ablation (similar to the control arm in CONVERGE), 


and the second group had an additional “box lesion” ablation aimed at isolating the PW. The 


box lesion set is actually taken from the CM-IV procedure, but it is somewhat controversial 


as it doesn’t ablate the entire posterior wall, only the borders of the wall (hence the “box” 


label). The study only measured freedom from AF rather than freedom from AF/AT/AFL, but 


83% (50/60) of the box lesion group were free from AF at 12 months compared to only 


63% (38/60) of the PVI-only group.11 Freedom from AF was considered achieved only in 


the absence of AADs, and none of the patients suffered an adverse event. 


 The most recent, largest, and significant study of PW ablation via catheter in patients with 


persistent AF was conducted between October 2014 and February 2017. In 390 consecutive 


patients in multiple centers, the first 222 received a PVI and PW ablation, while the next 168 


received only a PVI. At 12 months, 70% of the group undergoing a single-procedure 


PVI and PW ablation were free from all atrial arrhythmias compared to 42% in the 


                                                
10 Bai, R, et al, Proven isolation of the pulmonary vein antrum with or without left atrial posterior wall 


isolation in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation 
11 Kim, JS, et al, Does isolation of the left atrial posterior wall improve clinical outcomes after 


radiofrequency catheter ablation for persistent atrial fibrillation? A prospective randomized clinical trial 



https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(15)01033-4/fulltext

https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(15)01033-4/fulltext

https://www.internationaljournalofcardiology.com/article/S0167-5273(14)02442-5/fulltext

https://www.internationaljournalofcardiology.com/article/S0167-5273(14)02442-5/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 17 





group undergoing PVI alone.12 Seventeen percent of these patients remained on AADs 


and the rate of adverse events was 3%. 





All of the above studies conducted somewhat “primitive” catheter ablation procedures compared 


to the technology that’s available to EPs today, and yet their efficacy rates are broadly similar to 


those demonstrated by the Convergent arm in CONVERGE, while their safety results are better. 


The recently published results of the PRECEPT trial suggest that even slightly more modern 


catheter ablation technology and methods would lead to even better results. The trial measured 


the safety and efficacy of catheter ablation in a group of 344 patients with persistent AF (though 


excluding longstanding persistent patients) and was conducted between July 2016 and 


February 2018 using the most advanced catheter ablation tools available. These included 


electro-anatomical mapping (by J&J subsidiary Biosense Webster), which helps the EP to 


determine whether errant electrical impulses are being blocked, and a contact force RF-


powered catheter (also by Biosense), an innovation that allows the EP to precisely measure the 


force with which the catheter is pressing against the endocardial tissue. 





The PRECEPT trial gave EPs a large degree of discretion in deciding what to ablate. The only 


requirement was that a PVI be performed, with non-PV triggers ablated only at the EP’s 


discretion, depending on the feedback from the electrical mapping. Considering that 55% of 


procedures were PVI-only, the results of the trial were even more impressive: 





 The study’s primary effectiveness endpoint was defined as freedom from documented 


AF/AT/AFL episodes of 30 seconds or longer at 15 months, with no repeat ablations, and no 


new or higher dosage of AADs. At 15 months, primary effectiveness was 62%, and at 12 


months, the primary effectiveness was ~68%. 


 Clinical success, a secondary effectiveness endpoint, was defined as freedom from 


AF/AT/AFL at 15 months while allowing for a second ablation or a new/higher-dosage AAD 


regimen. On that measure, the 15-month success rate was ~80%, and the 12-month 


success rate was ~85%.  


 To make it simpler to compare the results of PRECEPT with the standard effectiveness 


endpoints in other AF-ablation trials, including CONVERGE, the trial participants had a 12-


month follow-up with ECG/Holter monitoring, and the single-ablation success rate at 12 


months was 73.2%.  


 On the safety front, the primary adverse event rate was 3.8%, well below the 8% seen in 


CONVERGE. 





The PRECEPT results strongly indicate that, even without the systematic ablation of the 


posterior wall, standard catheter ablation procedures have become quite effective at treating 


even the more intractable cases of AF. Of course, catheter ablation technology has continued to 


advance in the 2-3 years since the PRECEPT procedures were performed. The PRECEPT 


                                                
12 Aryana, A, et al, Posterior wall isolation using the cryoballoon in conjunction with pulmonary vein 


ablation is superior to pulmonary vein isolation alone in patients with persistent atrial fibrillation: A 


multicenter experience 



https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(18)30501-0/fulltext

https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(18)30501-0/fulltext

https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(18)30501-0/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 18 





results show that AtriCure today faces the same industry landscape it has continuously faced 


since 2005, when it attempted to develop a minimally invasive PVI: each time it pioneers a 


minimally invasive surgical ablation procedure, the rapid improvement in lower-risk catheter 


ablation technology makes it almost completely obsolete. As we discuss at further length below, 


this time is likely to be different only to the extent that new catheter technologies are making 


even more dramatic technological leaps than they have historically, to the detriment of AtriCure. 





Exacerbating that trend is the other factor that has historically held back AtriCure’s minimally 


invasive strategy – the electrophysiologist as the gatekeeper to surgical ablation. Almost any 


minimally invasive procedure, including Convergent, will require a referral from an EP. 


AtriCure’s unstated assumption regarding Convergent is that, because the EP will be performing 


one of the two procedures – and getting paid for it like with a normal catheter ablation – EPs will 


be eager to refer their persistent AF patients for a Convergent procedure. That assumes that the 


Medicare reimbursement regime currently operating – which considers the two parts of the 


Convergent procedure as two totally different ablation procedures as long as they are performed 


30 days apart – will endure once the FDA approves the EPi-Sense device and the Convergent 


procedure. That’s certainly possible, but we’re less confident that commercial insurers will be so 


generous in overlooking the subterfuge of purposely separating procedures by 30 days.  





More importantly, based on our extensive discussions with EPs, the field is overwhelmingly 


dubious of the entire idea of the Convergent procedure, mostly because they’re not ignorant of 


all the research we’ve discussed to this point. EPs are almost unanimously confident of their 


ability to do a posterior wall ablation via catheter. There’s no question that the CONVERGE trial 


suggests that a PW ablation is indicated in addition to a PVI for some of their patients, but it’s 


the culmination of many years of strong suspicion that this was the case. As several EPs quickly 


pointed out to us, the CONVERGE results are less about the Convergent procedure than they 


are about the benefits of posterior wall ablation. EPs are likely to alter their ablation practice 


going forward not by referring patients for a Convergent procedure, but by more frequently 


ablating the posterior wall when performing a catheter ablation procedure on a patient with 


persistent or longstanding persistent AF.  





EPs are also acutely aware of the Convergent procedure’s safety characteristics. In a recent 


fairly positive assessment of Convergent in the Arrhythmia and Electrophysiology Review, the 


authors highlight that even before the CONVERGE trial, the Convergent procedure had been 


the subject of 16 different clinical studies, mostly observational.13 Aside from the simple 


inference that the ranges of efficacy reported in these studies is, unsurprisingly, no different 


than PW ablation via catheter, it’s striking just how high the rate of complications/adverse 


events has been in Convergent procedures outside the CONVERGE trial. The 8% rate in 


                                                
13 Wats, K, et al, The Convergent AF Ablation Procedure: Evolution of a Multidisciplinary Approach to AF 


Management We extensively reviewed the references used in this study and believe that the 


characterization of many references was sloppy. For example, both Jan, M et al and Gulkarov et al are 


labeled as transabdominal studies when both clearly state that the Convergent procedure was performed 


through a subxiphoid incision. Conveniently, these mistakes paint the current iteration of Convergent in a 


better light given the low efficacy and high level of complications of the studies omitted. 



https://www.aerjournal.com/articles/Convergent-Atrial-fibrillation-Ablation-Management

https://www.aerjournal.com/articles/Convergent-Atrial-fibrillation-Ablation-Management

https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29722468/

https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jocs.14204
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 19 





CONVERGE was lower than the historical experience that had been reported by other 


Convergent studies, which have ranged from 8-17%. While the increased rate of adverse events 


in the Convergent arm was not statistically significantly larger than that in the control, the history 


of documented Convergent studies indicates that the procedure is 2-4 times more likely to result 


in an adverse safety event than a combined PVI and PW ablation via catheter.  





Of course, that kind of risk shouldn’t be all that surprising – the minimally invasive piece of 


Convergent is still, in the end, minimally invasive surgery. The patient’s abdomen is cut open, 


and the pericardium is punctured for access to the exterior of the heart. That’s certainly an 


improvement upon open heart surgery, but it’s much riskier than sticking a catheter into the 


heart through the femoral veins. That increased risk is not lost upon the EPs who would need to 


refer patients for Convergent.  





EPs will also consider that scheduling procedures 30 days apart needlessly extends the time 


frame of the more critical PVI procedure (which is the second of the Convergent procedures), 


and adds a level of logistical complication. Combined with the poor safety record of Convergent 


and the overwhelming evidence that an endocardial PW ablation is just as effective as a 


surgical epicardial procedure, we expect that the EP community will react to the final approval of 


Convergent with a collective shrug. Convergent will likely end up like AtriCure’s other attempts 


at expanding the surgical ablation market: foiled by the relentless progress made in the EP lab.  





IV. The addressable market for AtriCure’s core surgical 


ablation business is small and saturated, with meager 


growth prospects 





The core business that AtriCure was founded and started on…is the surgical ablation. And 


that is concomitant with other cardiac surgeries…In the United States alone, there are 


300,000 patients that have cardiac surgery. Of those, one-third have Afib. Today, only 


25% of those are getting treated. Now, that is a vast improvement though over 10 years 


ago when 10%. And the reason for that is that we got our device approved through the FDA 


and PMA. The guidelines changed and we have moved that needle, where we're now 


treating 20,000 to 25,000 patients per year… Now, it also shows you that there is a big 


market opportunity on top of that… you get the sense that it's under-penetrated and 


we've got many years of growth even with the guidelines there. And we are going to 


bring out new technology to improve the adoption of that from 25%. So hopefully get 


into 50% and 75% over the coming decade. 


Michael Carrel, AtriCure CEO 


May 12th, 2020 





The concomitant open heart market, meaning patients who undergo elective open heart 


surgical procedures such as a bypass or a valve operation and have a pre-existing history 


of atrial fibrillation…This is a $250 million annual U.S. market opportunity…The important
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 20 





thing to notice: patients are already in the operating room so AF treatment makes sense. 


So potential market on an annual basis is 85,000 U.S. patients per year; only 30% of 


the patients today are currently being treated. So there is significant opportunity for 


further penetration and growth. 


David Drachman, AtriCure’s Then-CEO 


JMP Securities Research Conference – May 11th, 2010 





As the two preceding quotes attest, AtriCure’s assertions over time regarding the market 


opportunity of concomitant surgical ablation are irreconcilable. Somehow, over the full decade 


from May 2010 to May 2020: 





 The number of patients with AF undergoing open-heart surgery has remained constant: 85k 


patients in 2010 compared to “about a third” of 300k patients in 2020, which AtriCure 


narrows down to 85,000 in its most recent investor presentation.14 


 The percentage of those patients being treated with an ablation has come down, from 30% 


in 2010 to 25% in 2020. 





Over that time, AtriCure’s open-heart ablation revenue has tripled, with little competition of 


which to speak. Some of AtriCure’s revenue growth has come from the modest amount of 


industry consolidation that occurred in the early half of the last decade, and some has come 


from the die-hard adherents of the “cut and sew” procedure either retiring or finally adopting RF 


ablation. But it’s impossible to take seriously the notion that AtriCure’s revenue has tripled as 


the number of AF patients undergoing ablation during open-heart surgery has somehow 


remained stagnant – or declined slightly from 30% to 25% of the addressable market. At best, 


the company seems to have no idea as to the size of the addressable market, or the penetration 


rate, and has just been repeating the same story to investors for the last decade. More likely, 


given surprisingly copious amounts of publicly available information on the topic, the company is 


being willfully disingenuous. 





The best data on the topic come from the Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS), which has 


maintained a prospective database of patients undergoing cardiothoracic surgery since 1987. 


Since at least 2010, the database has included all the operations from more than 90% of the 


centers performing cardiac surgery in the US, which includes over 95% of procedures in the 


country. While the data are not publicly available, investigators have access for clinical research 


purposes, and the number of patients undergoing open-heart surgery with preoperative AF has 


been a topic of ongoing interest. Multiple publications over the past ten years clearly 


demonstrate that AtriCure’s claims about the size of its addressable patient population are 


completely at odds with the reality. 





In 2012, the first multi-year survey of surgical ablation of AF based on the STS database was 


published in the Journal of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery. The study covered all patients 


between January 1, 2005 and December 31, 2010 who had undergone surgical ablation either 


                                                
14 On page 19, in the “Supplemental Information” section of the presentation, as filed with the SEC. 



https://www.sts.org/sites/default/files/Abridged-PUF-Program-Description_082718.pdf

https://www.sts.org/sites/default/files/Abridged-PUF-Program-Description_082718.pdf

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1323885/000132388520000027/atrc-20200429xex99_2.htm
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 21 





as a stand-alone procedure, or concomitantly with other cardiac procedures. Over that period, 


the authors found that “of patients undergoing elective or urgent non-redo cardiac surgery in 


North America, 11% presented with a history of AF.” That’s a far cry from the estimate of one 


third used by AtriCure to obtain an addressable patient population of 85k. Further, “the 


frequency of concomitant surgical ablations performed between 2005 and 2010 was 


40.6%.” In the last year of the study’s survey – 2010 – about 29k patients undergoing open-


heart surgery had preoperative AF, and 39% underwent a concomitant surgical ablation. Even 


10-15 years ago, the penetration of surgical ablation in patients with preoperative AF was quite 


a bit higher than the 20-25% that AtriCure claims is currently the case.15 





That 2012 publication was updated in 2017 by Vinay Badhwar and his colleagues with a study 


that surveyed concomitant surgical ablation in the period stretching from July 2011 to June 


2014.16 Similar to the earlier data, Badhwar found that over the period surveyed, about 


10.7% of patients undergoing open-heart surgery had preoperative AF and would have 


been candidates for concomitant ablation. Of those, 48.3% underwent a concomitant 


ablation, but the proportion was increasing over the three years such that by 2014, the 


penetration rate of concomitant ablation was closer to 60%, compared to 40% at the 


beginning of the survey period. Those figures are consistent with AtriCure’s >50% cumulative 


revenue growth in open-heart ablation from 2010 to 2014, but they are entirely inconsistent with 


AtriCure’s TAM and penetration claims. 





Based on the most recent STS database update, published this past March, the proportion of 


patients with preoperative AF undergoing a surgical ablation had increased to about 75% by 


2018.17 AtriCure’s volume growth in 2019 suggests that the penetration rate increased again in 


2019, by at least a mid-single-digit rate, indicating that the current penetration rate is in the low-


80% range. That’s not particularly surprising considering that in early 2017, the STS changed its 


clinical guidelines to make concomitant ablation a Class I recommendation. Any surgeons 


holding out until that point (and there weren’t many) no longer had much of an excuse not to 


perform a concomitant ablation. The almost wholesale adoption of concomitant surgical ablation 


leaves little opportunity for volume growth out of AtriCure’s core open-heart ablation and AtriClip 


segments.18 





The looming collapse in the prospective growth rate of the company’s core business has not 


gone unnoticed by AtriCure’s management. That is, after all, what the strong push behind the 


Convergent procedure is all about. But, somewhat amusingly, the company has also gone out of 


its way to have its TAM story represented in the academic setting, where it could attain the 


patina of “science.” In a study published in July of 2019, in which seven of the eight authors 


                                                
15 Ad, N, et al Surgical ablation of atrial fibrillation trends and outcomes in North America 
16 Badhwar, V, et al, Surgical Ablation of Atrial Fibrillation in the United States: Trends and Propensity 


Matched Outcomes 
17 See the number of AF correction operations in 2018 in Bowdish, M, et al, The Society of Thoracic 


Surgeons Adult Cardiac Surgery Database: 2020 Update on Outcomes and Research 
18 The ceiling for the penetration rate is in the low-90% range as some proportion of higher-risk patients 


cannot undergo concomitant ablation due to their inability to undergo a lengthier surgery. 



https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/22920597/

https://www.annalsthoracicsurgery.org/article/S0003-4975(17)30690-2/fulltext

https://www.annalsthoracicsurgery.org/article/S0003-4975(17)30690-2/fulltext

https://www.annalsthoracicsurgery.org/article/S0003-4975(20)30426-4/fulltext

https://www.annalsthoracicsurgery.org/article/S0003-4975(20)30426-4/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 22 





reported a financial relationship with AtriCure (including two employees of the company), and 


which was explicitly described as sponsored by AtriCure, a group of investigators found that the 


prevalence of AF in patients undergoing cardiac surgery was “substantially higher” than 


previously published rates of preoperative AF (i.e., the rates exhibited in the STS database), 


and that concomitant ablation was performed in fewer than a quarter of relevant patients. 


Coincidentally, the numbers match the story AtriCure has been telling for the last ten years.19 





But an even cursory review of the study reveals its shoddiness: 





 Though the investigators had access to the STS database, which covers over 95% of 


surgical procedures, they instead chose to use the much sparser Medicare data series for 


only one year, 2014, which is strange considering that there is more recent Medicare data to 


evaluate. The Medicare database included only a quarter of the total open-heart procedures 


captured by the STS database. 


 The major bias of Medicare data is that it only includes Medicare patients, a population that 


is massively different from the average patient who undergoes open-heart surgery. The 


median patient with AF in the AtriCure study was a few years over 75, while the median 


patient with AF in the STS database was 71 years old. The gap of over 5 years explains at 


least some of the difference in preoperative AF rates. 


 Medicare data doesn’t actually report whether a patient undergoing open-heart surgery has 


AF. So the AtriCure investigators matched patient data with hospital admissions in the prior 


3 years, and if a patient had 1 hospital admission with a diagnosis code corresponding to AF 


in that time, the patient would be considered to have preoperative AF. The authors admit 


that a “hospital admission with a diagnosis of AF” is actually “not specific for the presence 


of AF” and “could be used for admission to rule out AF.” One thing the study authors 


don’t admit is that the AF diagnosis code could also have been related to an actual ablation 


– catheter or surgical – which, of course, would mean the patient was not a subsequent 


candidate for a concomitant ablation. Such glaring flaws in the basic classification of the 


data apparently did not give much pause to the study authors. 


 20% of the procedures in the Medicare sample were classified as emergency surgery, while 


that category represents about 3.5% of the overall patients undergoing open heart surgery 


in the STS database. Unsurprisingly, patients undergoing emergency surgery are extremely 


unlikely to undergo any concomitant procedure besides the one for which they were rushed 


to the hospital. The penetration rate of ablation in a sample with an inordinate number of 


emergency surgeries will necessarily be much lower than an unbiased sample of patients. 


 10% of the Medicare sample used by the AtriCure study was comprised of patients with 


endocarditis or undergoing a repeat or follow-up procedure. The former category is contra-


indicated for an ablation, and the inclusion of the latter category is double counting in the 


denominator, as if an ablation would be performed, it could only be performed in one of the 


procedures. 





                                                
19 McCarthy, PM, et al, Prevalence of atrial fibrillation before cardiac surgery and factors associated with 


concomitant ablation 



https://www.jtcvs.org/article/S0022-5223(19)31361-3/fulltext

https://www.jtcvs.org/article/S0022-5223(19)31361-3/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 23 





The biased and deeply flawed study of 2014 Medicare data says nothing useful about the 


company’s TAM or the penetration rate of concomitant ablation, particularly when the STS 


database, which includes more detailed and abundant data, tells a richer and more consistent 


story about the need for, and prevalence of, concomitant ablation. But the AtriCure’s attempt at 


substantiating its investor relations effort by giving it the aura of scientific legitimacy undermines 


its credibility. AtriCure seems overly concerned with the perception of its prospects, even as 


they deteriorate. The reality is that the engines of AtriCure’s revenue growth for the past decade 


– open heart ablation and the associated AtriClip – have likely run out of steam. 





Despite a decade of growth and market penetration, and little direct 


competition, AtriCure remains unprofitable 





The obvious inference to be made from the STS data is that about a tenth of the approximately 


285k patients undergoing open-heart surgeries annually suffer from preoperative AF, and that 


just about 80-85% of those – about 25k patients – undergo a concomitant ablation. AtriCure’s 


segment revenue and average sales price disclosures indicate that the company thoroughly 


dominates the domestic concomitant ablation market having participated in 23k-25k open-heart 


ablations in 2019, a market share above 90%.20  





Based on our extensive discussions with cardiac surgeons, as well as the rapid revenue growth 


the product has generated, almost every single one of those procedures is accompanied by an 


exclusion of the patient’s left atrial appendage carried out with the AtriClip. Like AtriCure’s open-


heart ablation devices, the AtriClip has no notable competition – when it comes to excluding the 


LAA surgically, the AtriClip is basically the only product that surgeons use.  





Oddly, such near-total dominance of open-heart ablation has not led to any profits. On the 


contrary, AtriCure hasn’t generated any free cash flow, or even positive EBITDA, since it went 


public in 2005. As the financials below indicate, AtriCure hasn’t realized even a modicum of 


operating leverage as its total revenue has more than tripled over the 7 years to 2019 and the 


penetration rate of its open-heart devices has approached the point of saturation. 





                                                
20 AtriCure’s most recent investor presentation implies an average sales price per concomitant ablation of 


approximately $3,000 - $3,500.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 24 





AtriCure: Domestic Financial Results 2012-2019 
 





Source: company filings, Kerrisdale analysis 
 





The inescapable conclusion we draw from AtriCure’s financials is that developing and selling 


surgical ablation devices is a structurally unprofitable business. From the standpoint of research 


and development, the lack of operating leverage is understandable: AtriCure’s surgical ablation 


devices may not compete with other surgical ablation devices, but they indirectly compete with 


continuously advancing catheter ablation technology, which is itself characterized by intense 


competition among the major medical device companies. As they improve their catheter ablation 


devices by incorporating the latest discoveries and findings of cardiac rhythm research, AtriCure 


must do the same. That’s in addition to the array of expensive clinical trials that AtriCure must 


sponsor to try and prove (unsuccessfully) the utility of minimally invasive surgical procedures 


such as Convergent. 





Surprisingly though, AtriCure has also been unable to generate any leverage on its other 


operating expense lines. The company’s salesforce disclosures reveal that, as domestic 


revenues grew 19.8% annually over the period included in the above chart, the number of sales 


reps grew at an only slightly lower rate of 15%. After accounting for pricing increases (that flow 


through to commissioned sales reps) and moderate increases in annual compensation, the 


sales organization has been totally incapable of leveraging its human capital. Selling surgical 


ablation tools is evidently too personnel-intensive to lend itself to efficiency gains and 


associated increases in profitability, even in product lines that face no material competition. As 


for operating expenses besides sales, it’s unclear if they generate some leverage that’s 


swamped by the inefficiency of the sales organization or if they too simply don’t scale.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 25 





Either way, AtriCure has been unable to demonstrate any operating leverage, let alone a trivial 


accounting profit, even as its core products have saturated their addressable market with little 


direct competition. That is the hallmark of a structurally unprofitable business, and it partly 


explains why the major device companies, including Medtronic, Abbott, and J&J, have been 


totally uninterested in trying to capture any part of this market. Of course, the other reason these 


players have ceded the market entirely to AtriCure is because it’s just not that much of a market. 


As much as AtriCure may protest, at approximately $150 million in domestic revenue, the days 


of double-digit growth are over. 





V. New technologies are revolutionizing cardiac ablation 


to the detriment of AtriCure 





In its presentation on the CONVERGE trial results, AtriCure references the results of the STAR 


AF II trial as evidence that catheter ablation can’t effectively treat patients suffering from 


persistent AF.21 The problem with that evidence, aside from AtriCure’s deceptive interpretation 


of the data, is that the STAR AF II trial was conducted between the end of 2010 and July of 


2012, with results published in mid-2015.22 Catheter ablation technology has advanced 


dramatically over the past ten years, a period that spans practically half of the existence of 


catheter ablation, which began as a treatment modality only after Haissaguerre’s findings in 


1998. 





Technological advancement of catheter ablation has consistently meant improving efficacy and 


speed, while maintaining high standards of safety.  





 Efficacy is defined in two ways: acutely and chronically. Acute, or immediate, success is 


defined by the successful electrical isolation of the targeted area, as determined by the 


cardiac electrical map. Longer term efficacy is defined as the durability of that isolation and, 


more importantly, the ability of the ablation to prevent the occurrence of atrial arrhythmias.  


 Speed has always been defined by the length of time it takes to perform the catheter 


ablation procedure. The faster the procedure can be performed, the lower the probability of 


adverse events, and the more likely an EP is to perform an ablation. 


 Safety, as defined by low rates of adverse events, has primarily focused on preventing 


phrenic nerve injury, which could cause phrenic nerve palsy, and esophageal injury, which 


                                                
21 Verma, A, et al, Approaches to Catheter Ablation for Persistent Atrial Fibrillation 
22 AtriCure’s presentation of the STAR AF II results cuts off the published table documenting the trial’s 


major efficacy outcomes, conveniently omitting the fact that – even 10 years ago! – two catheter ablation 


procedures consisting of PVI alone resulted in freedom from AF/AT/AFL 18 months after the initial 


procedure in 61% of patients suffering from persistent AF, with 49% of patients free from AF/AT/AFL after 


only one procedure. That’s not too far off from the Convergent arm’s 68% at 12 months demonstrated in 


the CONVERGE trial, and it’s potentially better considering the 6 extra months until patient evaluation. 



https://ir.atricure.com/static-files/8e296459-5450-4681-8ac5-7d3d669094fd

https://www.nejm.org/doi/10.1056/NEJMoa1408288
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 26 





could result in death. Esophageal injury is particularly relevant to PW ablation via catheter 


because the esophagus runs adjacent to the left atrial posterior wall, and ablating the 


posterior wall endocardially could result in a fatal thermal injury to the esophagus without the 


proper precautions being taken by the EP. 





Since the STAR AF II trial took place, several major technological and methodological 


innovations have advanced the efficacy, speed, and safety of catheter ablation procedures.23 


Contact Force (CF) catheters, which were introduced commercially in 2014, allowed EPs to 


physically sense the catheter’s contact with the cardiac tissue, as well as quantitatively monitor 


the parameters of that contact. Before that, EPs would use catheter tip temperature, weak 


tactile feedback, catheter motion and stability, and other indirect measures, to assess whether 


they were making durable lesions. While CF was initially less impactful than might be expected, 


as more studies were conducted, and various quantitative measures derived from the data that 


were newly accessible, clinicians learned to use CF to make more durable lesions, reducing the 


recurrence of arrhythmias. At the same time, the technology helped reduce the fluoroscopy time 


of a procedure (resulting in less radiation applied to the patient) and reduce the overall 


procedure time. CF has been instrumental in increasing both the efficacy and speed of catheter 


ablation.24 





From a methodological standpoint, High-Power, Short-Duration (HPSD) ablation has been 


another significant advance. As catheter ablation matured, academic clinicians theorized 


different power application strategies that could potentially increase the efficacy of catheter 


ablation. HPSD applied a higher dose of RF power to the cardiac tissue than had been 


previously used with RF catheters, but applied that power for shorter durations. The technique 


has been shown to result in fewer arrhythmia recurrences, while speeding up procedure time 


and reducing complication rates.25 





Beyond CF catheters and the HPSD techniques, many smaller advances have improved the 


catheter ablation procedure. These include esophageal temperature probes, which help prevent 


injury to the esophagus while performing a PW ablation, and cryo-balloon catheters, which 


ablate tissue by freezing it, but also do so more rapidly and reliably in cases where large swaths 


of tissue require ablation. But all the innovation of the past decade seems marginal compared to 


Pulsed Field Ablation (PFA) and real time electrical mapping of the heart. 


                                                
23 For a survey of these advances, see Rottner, L, et al, Innovative tools for atrial fibrillation ablation 
24 For a review of the initial disappointing efficacy results of CF, see Ariyarathna, N, et al, Role of Contact 


Force Sensing in Catheter Ablation of Cardiac Arrhythmias. For a review of how Ablation Index (AI), a 


measure that can only be derived using a CF catheter, has been used to improve efficacy and speed of 


catheter ablation procedures, see Pranata, R, et al, Ablation-index guided versus conventional contact-


force guided ablation in pulmonary vein isolation – Systematic review and meta-analysis 
25 A prospective trial of HPSD that resulted in higher efficacy rates is described in Yavin, HD, et al, Impact 


of High-Power Short-Duration Radiofrequency Ablation on Long-Term Lesion Durability for Atrial 


Fibrillation Ablation. Lower complication rates are discussed in Winkle, RA, et al, Low complication rates 


using high power (45–50 W) for short duration for atrial fibrillation ablations 



https://www.esosure.com/temperatureprobes

https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17434440.2020.1768846

https://electrophysiology.onlinejacc.org/content/4/6/707

https://electrophysiology.onlinejacc.org/content/4/6/707

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0972629219300750

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0972629219300750

https://electrophysiology.onlinejacc.org/content/6/8/973

https://electrophysiology.onlinejacc.org/content/6/8/973

https://electrophysiology.onlinejacc.org/content/6/8/973

https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(18)31251-7/fulltext

https://www.heartrhythmjournal.com/article/S1547-5271(18)31251-7/fulltext
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 27 





Pulsed Field Ablation (PFA) is a revolution in the safety and speed of 


catheter ablation, and will render a lot of surgical ablation obsolete 





As discussed previously, the two procedures that comprise Convergent – an endocardial 


catheter-based PVI, and an epicardial PW ablation – can be performed just as effectively, and 


more safely, in a single catheter ablation procedure. Still, there are potential downsides to a PW 


ablation using a catheter. The procedure can be a bit tedious using an RF catheter, because 


ablating the posterior wall with the catheter tip requires the repeated application of power 


through that tip across a large area. Imagine covering a swath of paper with a dot-marker, but 


with the marker being held a few feet away with a flexible tube. Additionally, the posterior wall of 


the left atrium abuts the esophagus. While the tough myocardial tissue can withstand the 


thermal impact of RF or cryo-ablation, too much power applied for too long can cause ulceration 


of the esophagus, or, in extremely rare cases, the perforation of the esophageal tissue, which is 


almost always fatal. Despite these drawbacks, PW ablation via catheter remains substantially 


safer than even minimally invasive surgical procedures, primarily because surgical 


complications occur, on average, with greater frequency and severity. 





But pulsed field ablation (PFA), an ablation modality that gained renewed interest from 


investigators about seven years ago, will soon completely transform catheter ablation by 


specifically addressing the speed and safety issues presented by traditional thermal power 


sources like RF and cryo. PFA uses a technique called electroporation, which has long been 


used in microbiology research. Cell membranes are made up of two layers of phospholipids. By 


shooting electrical pulses at a predetermined voltage for a few microseconds through cells, 


electroporation rearranges the phospholipid layers that make up the membrane, opening pores 


into the cells. If the pores are large enough, their presence is permanent, and the cells die 


through lysis. Though the cells die, the extracellular matrix remains intact and the tissue 


structure is perfectly preserved, making electroporation a possible ablation modality. Two 


qualities of electroporation make it a potentially ideal ablation modality: 





 Tissue selectivity – at a given voltage, electroporation is tissue-selective. Through an 


accident of nature, myocytes – the cells that make up the myocardial tissue that is ablated – 


have a much lower electric field threshold than nerves, vasculature, or the esophagus. In 


practice, that means that the voltage that needs to be applied to the cardiac tissue in order 


to kill the cells and shut down errant electrical signals is much lower than the voltage 


needed to kill nerve, vascular, or esophageal cells, which are completely spared even if the 


ablation is overpowered. As a result, it’s practically impossible for a PFA procedure to result 


in phrenic nerve injury, blood vessel occlusion, or esophageal perforation. The resulting 


pristine safety profile of PFA essentially completely solves the major safety problems 


associated with ablation. 





 Speed – what’s being delivered to the tissue in PFA is an instantaneously large voltage field. 


The procedure times of the first few in-human trials of PFA were relatively long as the details 


of the procedure were still in the process of being optimized. But the most recent 



https://www.thermofisher.com/us/en/home/references/gibco-cell-culture-basics/transfection-basics/transfection-methods/electroporation.html
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 28 





documented trial, in which EPs performed both a PVI and PW ablation, provides an 


interesting point of reference. In the 25 patients included in the study, the average ablation 


time for the PVIs was 22 minutes, and the PW ablation took an average of 10 minutes. 


Those numbers compare extremely favorably to the average ablation time of 108 minutes 


recorded in the PRECEPT trial discussed previously, in which PW ablation was not even 


performed on all the patients. 





While PFA has demonstrated an unmatched safety and speed profile, the method’s efficacy has 


been detailed in several trials over the last two years, and the number of ongoing trials 


continues to grow. A recent presentation at HRS reviewed the data from three clinical trials that 


included 117 patients suffering from paroxysmal AF on whom a PVI was performed using a 


basket-shaped PFA catheter designed by Farapulse. 42 patients underwent the procedure after 


the electric pulse waveforms were optimized on the initial cohorts of patients. Of these 42 


patients, 83% showed all 4 of their pulmonary veins electrically isolated when they went for a 


catheter-based electrical mapping of their heart 3 months after the procedure. Of those 42 


patients, 15 had made it to the one-year mark for the presentation’s data cut-off, and 14 of those 


remained free of AF at that point. The Kaplan-Meier estimate of freedom from all atrial 


arrhythmias at the one-year mark for that cohort was 84%, comparable to the efficacy rate for 


RF- or cryo-based catheter ablation in similar patient populations.26 





PFA is not yet ready for commercialization. While the safety and speed of the various devices 


are virtually guaranteed, the EPs involved with the various device makers and clinical trials told 


us that efficacy is going to continue to improve over the near term. There are multiple variables 


in the context of PFA that will affect the durability of the lesions formed during the procedure, 


including the parameters of the pulse’s waveform (width, frequency, pulse grouping, and 


intervals between pulses), magnitude of the electric field used, and the applied voltage. The 


only one of these that will be adjustable by the EP controlling the procedure is the applied 


voltage. The rest will be intrinsic to the device used, and device makers are racing to optimize 


these variables in the pursuit of maximally durable lesions. If Farapulse’s first cut at an 


optimized system is any indication, the durability of ablations using PFA is going to be more 


than adequate. Over time, we expect that further results from improved Farapulse devices, but 


also from Medtronic, Abbott, and Affera, will improve upon what can now be achieved with the 


most optimized system from Farapulse. 





Like many of the most prominent electrophysiologists in the world, we expect the impact of PFA 


on ablation treatment to be revolutionary. The reduced procedural time will mean that many of 


the logistical hurdles that currently prevent EPs from performing too many ablations will be 


removed, expanding the overall market for cardiac ablation. Dramatic reductions in catheter 


ablation procedural times and safety risks will also negatively impact AtriCure’s core open-heart 


business. It’s been well-documented that in-hospital outcomes of patients with preoperative AF 


undergoing open-heart surgery are much worse than for those not suffering AF. In patients with 


                                                
26 Reddy, VY, et al, One Year Clinical Outcomes Following Pulsed Field Ablation for Paroxysmal AF 



https://cslide-us.ctimeetingtech.com/hrs20/attendee/eposter/poster/932?

https://www.mdedge.com/cardiology/article/217577/arrhythmias-ep/pulsed-field-catheter-ablation-shows-huge-clinical-promise

https://cslide-us.ctimeetingtech.com/hrs20/attendee/eposter/poster/932?
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 29 





preoperative AF undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), for example, in-hospital 


mortality was 50% greater and risk of renal failure or stroke during the surgery was 35% and 


20% higher, respectively, than patients not suffering from AF.27 With a rapid ablation modality 


available, several EPs told us they’d be able to easily perform an ablation on their patients 


before they went in for surgery, reducing the risk of surgical complications. Those patients will 


no longer undergo concomitant ablation.  





More importantly, the immaculate safety profile and rapid application will result in even more 


widespread performance of PW ablation via catheter. As if to highlight that, a small feasibility 


study was recently conducted on 25 patients on whom combined PVI and PW ablation were 


performed using a Farapulse catheter. When mapped right after the ablation, the entire 


posterior wall was successfully isolated in all 25 patients.28 In a follow-up of that study at HRS, 


remapping of the 16 patients with evaluable data at the 3-month mark showed successful 


isolation of the posterior wall in 100% of the patients. Longer term durability data on these 


patients will be presented eventually, but already this trial is showing even better electrical 


isolation results than the three aforementioned trials focused on paroxysmal AF. We expect that 


the ability to perform PW ablation rapidly and safely via catheter will put the final nail in the 


coffin of minimally invasive surgical procedures such as Convergent. 





Real-time mapping devices, such as those from Acutus, will change 


the ablation treatment paradigm to the detriment of AtriCure 





Part of the problem with the efficacy of catheter ablation is that AF is still a bit of a mystery. In 


patients with paroxysmal AF, the physical source of the errant electrical signals causing the 


arrhythmia is known to be proximate to the pulmonary veins most of the time. But left untreated, 


the source of the arrhythmias expands beyond the PVs. The CONVERGE trial showed that, for 


a significant portion of patients suffering from persistent or longstanding persistent AF, the left 


atrial posterior wall is a common source of errant electrical signals. But the results of 


CONVERGE, in which about a third of patients experienced a recurrence of an atrial arrhythmia 


within a year, suggest that the PW is also not always the definitive source of the arrhythmias.  





Until recently, mapping out the electrical activity in the heart in real time has been impossible. 


The mapping catheters sold by the major cardiac device companies are contact-based 


catheters, which require the EP to touch the endocardial surface with the catheter point-by-point 


over the course of 15-20 minutes to produce a cardiac electrical map that indicates the 


presence or absence of electrical activity. This allows the EP to determine whether they isolated 


                                                
27 Malaisrie, SC, et al, Burden of preoperative atrial fibrillation in patients undergoing coronary artery 


bypass grafting It’s also worth pointing out that the investigators found that only 6.9% of patients 


undergoing CABG surgery suffered from AF, another data point that stands in stark contrast to AtriCure’s 


claim that 25-30% of open-heart surgery patients suffer from AF. 
28 Reddy, V, et al, Pulsed Field Ablation in Patients With Persistent Atrial Fibrillation 



https://cslide-us.ctimeetingtech.com/hrs20/attendee/eposter/poster/949?q=pulsed+field

https://www.jtcvs.org/article/S0022-5223(18)30312-X/fulltext

https://www.jtcvs.org/article/S0022-5223(18)30312-X/fulltext

https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0735109720359398?via%3Dihub
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 30 





the PVs, or the PW, or any other cardiac structure targeted, after performing the ablation itself. 


But it’s impossible for the EP to see the continuous electrical activity as it’s occurring in the 


heart.  





Acutus, a medical device company that recently went public, has changed that by designing a 


mapping catheter with a spherical shape that uses ultrasound to create a comprehensive 


cardiac map of not only the actual cardiac anatomy, but also the electrical propagation 


pathways. The catheter never actually touches the endocardial surface, and it creates this 


“activation map” by sampling the voltage in the cardiac cavity at 150k times per second and 


then processing that data through its algorithm to derive the distribution of electrical charges 


across the chamber’s surface. It does this in under three minutes. 29 





The ability to actually visualize the heart’s electrical rhythm with each heartbeat allows an EP to 


more accurately observe the probable source of the arrhythmia, and then perform the ablation 


at that site. This is not just theoretical – Acutus has shown that its technology can improve 


outcomes for patients with persistent AF. In the single-arm UNCOVER AF trial, 127 patients 


with persistent AF underwent a catheter ablation, with 121 of these (6 patients either withdrew 


consent or were lost to follow-up) evaluated 7 days, and 1, 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-


procedure. In addition to a PVI, the EPs conducting the procedure in the trial were trained to 


identify different patterns of abnormal electrical activation, identifiable on Acutus’s AcQMap 


system, that correspond to AF arrhythmias.30 If identified, the trial protocol required the EPs to 


ablate the associated cardiac tissue.  





The results of the trial indicate that real-time mapping of arrhythmias would help EPs 


significantly improve the efficacy of ablation procedures compared to PVI alone.31 12 months 


from the procedure, 69% of patients were free from AF/AT/AFL after only the initial procedure. 


Including the patients that underwent a second ablation, 86% of the trial participants were free 


from AF/AT/AFL at the 12-month mark.32 The single-procedure efficacy of a catheter ablation 


aided only by real-time mapping matches the double-procedure efficacy of Convergent, and the 


double-procedure efficacy using AcQMap is a vast improvement. Real-time mapping, which 


unlike PFA is already commercialized but is only beginning to gain adherents, enables precision 


ablation that makes minimally invasive surgical ablation completely unnecessary.  





The technology for so precisely analyzing the heart’s electrical signaling system in the context of 


arrhythmias like AF is still incredibly new and, over time, we expect that it will be able to detect 


                                                
29 Acutus demonstrates this technology through multiple videos on its website 
30 The activation patterns are detailed in Grace, A, et al, High-resolution noncontact charge-density 


mapping of endocardial activation, and in particular in Figure 6. Most, though not all, of the abnormal 


activation locations identified by the investigators were on the left atrial posterior wall. 
31 It’s much less clear whether real-time mapping would help improve upon a protocol that called for a PVI 


and PW ablation for all persistent AF patients, though it would help reduce procedure times, and improve 


safety by reducing the physical area requiring ablation. 
32 Willems, S, et al, Targeting Nonpulmonary Vein Sources in Persistent Atrial Fibrillation Identified by 


Noncontact Charge Density Mapping 



https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02825992

https://www.acutusmedical.com/us/technology/

https://insight.jci.org/articles/view/126422

https://insight.jci.org/articles/view/126422

https://insight.jci.org/articles/view/126422/figure/6

https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/10.1161/CIRCEP.119.007233

https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/10.1161/CIRCEP.119.007233
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 31 





AF (and other arrhythmias) emanating from other locations around the heart that have yet to be 


identified. As that happens, the superiority of catheter ablation over the blunt instrument of a 


surgical procedure will be further enhanced. In addition, Acutus is in the process of developing a 


PFA ablation system of its own to use in conjunction with its AcQMap system, with the goal of 


even more drastic reductions in procedure times.  





The future of catheter ablation is bright, and by delivering the fatal blow to minimally invasive 


ablation and even eating into the concomitant surgical ablation market, it threatens AtriCure’s 


very existence.  





VI. Conclusion 





The performance of AtriCure’s stock price over the past six months, particularly around the 


results of the CONVERGE trial presented in May, indicates that investors see the Convergent 


procedures as a powerful growth lever over the medium term. In our view, nothing could be 


further from reality. The CONVERGE results are clearly good enough for AtriCure’s EPi-Sense 


device to receive FDA approval for the first Convergent procedure. But just because a device is 


approved, that doesn’t mean it will be used. Unfortunately for AtriCure, after a decade’s worth of 


technological improvement in catheter ablation equipment, Convergent is just overkill. There’s 


simply no need for a surgical procedure, and the risks that it entails, to treat patients with 


persistent or longstanding persistent AF.  





Even the well-designed catheter ablation trials conducted 8-10 years ago, such as STAR AF II, 


suggest that the safest way to treat these patients is with a single catheter ablation procedure, 


followed by another one in the half of patients in which atrial arrhythmias recur. The efficacy of 


this treatment paradigm – even ten years ago – rivaled the efficacy demonstrated by 


Convergent much more recently, and the safety profile was better. Using updated approaches – 


contact force catheters, high-power low-duration ablation, esophageal temperature monitoring, 


and most significantly, ablation of the posterior wall – has vastly improved catheter ablation. The 


most recent clinical research strongly supports the assumption of the overwhelming majority of 


electrophysiologists: catheter ablation is demonstrably safer, and almost certainly more 


effective, than the minimally invasive surgery involved in Convergent. The implication for 


AtriCure is that its best hope for growth is already dead, and it hasn’t even been approved yet. 





If that weren’t enough, new catheter technologies such as pulsed field ablation and real time 


electrical mapping are on the verge of completely revolutionizing the nature of catheter ablation. 


The speed, safety, and efficacy of catheter ablation will soon reach levels that will make the 


procedure a reasonable option even for patients who are set to undergo open heart surgery. We 


expect this will be the nail in the coffin of minimally invasive stand-alone ablation, as well as a 


completely new source of competition for concomitant surgical ablation, a market that AtriCure 


has heretofore had all to itself. 



https://ir.acutusmedical.com/news-releases/news-release-details/acutus-medical-announces-pulse-field-ablation-program-and
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 32 








That market, which underlies AtriCure’s core open-heart and AtriClip segments, and over two 


thirds of its revenues, has been portrayed by the company as vast and underpenetrated. 


Investors have accepted the proposition that AtriCure’s core surgical business has many years 


of growth before it. But an even cursory look into the data reveals a reality at odds with the 


company’s portrayal of the market. The addressable surgical ablation market comprises only 


about 10% of overall open-heart surgeries, in contrast to AtriCure’s claims that one third of 


those patients suffer preoperative AF. Meanwhile, the market is approximately 80% penetrated, 


rather than the 20-25% figure that AtriCure asserts, and AtriCure’s share of that market is over 


90%. The unfortunate implication for investors is that while AtriCure’s core business has grown 


at a double-digit rate for over a decade, that growth will come to a screeching halt in the very 


near term. 





AtriCure currently trades at 7.5x the revenue generated in 2019, and about 7x consensus 


estimates of the revenue to be generated in the next twelve months. We expect that AtriCure 


will recover from the pandemic-driven decline in cardiac surgeries to eventually regain its peak 


revenues, but that will be thin gruel for investors. The company operates a business that has 


shown itself to be structurally unprofitable and incapable of generating operating leverage even 


in the best of times. But those times are over. A likely side effect of the rapid technological 


advancement of catheter ablation will be the complete collapse of AtriCure’s business.
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 33 





Full Legal Disclaimer  





As of the publication date of this report, Kerrisdale Capital Management LLC and its affiliates 


(collectively "Kerrisdale") have short positions in the stock of AtriCure, Inc. (“ATRC”). In addition, 


others that contributed research to this report and others that we have shared our research with 


(collectively with Kerrisdale, the “Authors”) likewise may have short positions in the stock of 


ATRC. The Authors stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. 


Following publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company 


covered herein. All content in this report represent the opinions of Kerrisdale. The Authors have 


obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, 


such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. 


The Authors make no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 


completeness of any such information or with regard to the results obtained from its use. All 


expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the Authors do not undertake 


to update or supplement this report or any information contained herein. This report is not a 


recommendation to short the shares of any company, including ATRC, and is only a discussion 


of why Kerrisdale is short ATRC. 





This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted 


as to completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information 


included in this document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing 


conditions and the Authors’ views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change. 


The Authors’ opinions and estimates constitute a best efforts judgment and should be regarded 


as indicative, preliminary and for illustrative purposes only. 





Any investment involves substantial risks, including, but not limited to, pricing volatility, 


inadequate liquidity, and the potential complete loss of principal. This report’s estimated 


fundamental value only represents a best efforts estimate of the potential fundamental valuation 


of a specific security, and is not expressed as, or implied as, assessments of the quality of a 


security, a summary of past performance, or an actionable investment strategy for an investor. 





This document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 


any investment, security, or commodity discussed herein or of any of the affiliates of the 


Authors. Also, this document does not in any way constitute an offer or solicitation of an offer to 


buy or sell any security in any jurisdiction in which such an offer would be unlawful under the 


securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of the Authors’ abilities and beliefs, all 


information contained herein is accurate and reliable. The Authors reserve the rights for their 


affiliates, officers, and employees to hold cash or derivative positions in any company discussed 


in this document at any time. As of the original publication date of this document, investors 


should assume that the Authors are short shares of ATRC and stand to potentially realize gains 


in the event that the market valuation of the company’s common equity is lower than prior to the 


original publication date. These affiliates, officers, and individuals shall have no obligation to 


inform any investor or viewer of this report about their historical, current, and future trading
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC | 1212 Avenue of the Americas, 3rd Floor | New York, NY 10036 | Tel: 212.792.7999 | Fax: 212.531.6153 34 





activities. In addition, the Authors may benefit from any change in the valuation of any other 


companies, securities, or commodities discussed in this document. Analysts who prepared this 


report are compensated based upon (among other factors) the overall profitability of the 


Authors’ operations and their affiliates. The compensation structure for the Authors’ analysts is 


generally a derivative of their effectiveness in generating and communicating new investment 


ideas and the performance of recommended strategies for the Authors. This could represent a 


potential conflict of interest in the statements and opinions in the Authors’ documents. 





The information contained in this document may include, or incorporate by reference, forward-


looking statements, which would include any statements that are not statements of historical 


fact. Any or all of the Authors’ forward-looking assumptions, expectations, projections, intentions 


or beliefs about future events may turn out to be wrong. These forward-looking statements can 


be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks, uncertainties and other 


factors, most of which are beyond the Authors’ control. Investors should conduct independent 


due diligence, with assistance from professional financial, legal and tax experts, on all 


securities, companies, and commodities discussed in this document and develop a stand-alone 


judgment of the relevant markets prior to making any investment decision.
