Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block 





These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


 
The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters Capital”).  We refer to Muddy Waters Research and Muddy Waters Capital collectively 
as “Muddy Waters” and individually these entities are referred to as a “Muddy Waters Entity”.  You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Muddy Waters report, 
Muddy Waters Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons clients 
and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a short position in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 
related to one or more of these securities), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer 
decline or appreciate. Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and/or the Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for 
an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated 
in the research report published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital will update any report or 
information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related Person.  Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report.  All reports 
are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC is an investment 
adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The reports are the property of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity that published that report.    This website is 
owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the applicable Muddy Waters Entity and are not attributable to any 
Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than the applicable Muddy Waters Entity). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk. You (or any 
person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses 
(including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any 
securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this website. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. 
If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If 
you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Use. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person (including Muddy Waters Capital) 
are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website. Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital. 
Muddy Waters Capital is an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Muddy Waters 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Muddy 
Waters Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Muddy Waters Capital has no such knowledge about you. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO (each a “Permitted Recipient”).  In 
relation to the United Kingdom, the research and materials on this website are being issued only to, and are directed only at, persons who are Permitted Recipients and, without 
prejudice to any other restrictions or warnings set out in these Terms of Use, persons who are not Permitted Recipients must not act or rely on the information contained in any of the 
research or materials on this website.  


The research and reports presented on this website express the opinion of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity only.  Reports are based on generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s ability and belief, 
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that the applicable Muddy Waters Entity believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or 
indirectly). However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  With respect to their respective research reports, Muddy Waters 
Research and Muddy Waters Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital undertakes to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  


In no event shall Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 
indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website. This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on 
the information on this website. 


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, 
or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained research published by Muddy 
Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms 
of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website 
or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to 
submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates are based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital to exercise or enforce any 
right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these 
Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give 
effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law 
and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to this website or the material on this 
website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred. 





Page 1 of 7
EHTH: Booking Revenues Today that it Will Collect in 2029 
 
 
We estimate that – prior to any tail revenue adjustment – it takes EHTH nine years to fully 
collect each dollar of Medicare Advantage revenue it books.  With tail revenue adjustments, 
EHTH’s collection period seemingly extends to 20 years.  EHTH’s future cash flows are 
therefore highly speculative.   
 
Our first report detailed our view that EHTH’s revenue recognition practices are unduly 
aggressive, particularly because the model is based on stickier cohorts that came through higher 
quality channels than EHTH’s 2018 and 2019 cohorts.  Seemingly lost in the mix by investors is 
the mismatch between EHTH revenues and cash collection.  EHTH’s highly aggressive revenue 
recognition practices mask that its growth-at-all-costs strategy has transformed it from a 
marginally profitable business into one that is destroying significant value while incinerating 
cash. 
 
We calculate the cash collections to match receivables for the 2019 customer cohort will take 
approximately nine years to come in, even using EHTH’s stated historical churn to estimate 
member attrition. 
 





Put another way, EHTH can expect to collect only about 64% of booked Medicare Advantage 
revenue during the three-year period for which it estimates revenue. 
 
This timing mismatch is pushed out even further by EHTH’s separate “tail revenue” adjustment, 
which we view as aggressive and oversized.  EHTH books MA tail revenue at the end of three 
years, which may appear reasonable at first glance: this is the same timespan as the company’s 
stated average MA life. But, given the small remaining member base at the time EHTH is 
booking this additional revenue, they are still facing down an additional six years of uncollected 
receivables before the tail revenue even begins to get collected.   
 


Page 2 of 7
As we detailed (and the promotional management has failed to acknowledge), future collections 
have associated costs relating to member retention and revenue sharing.  Without incurring these 
costs, EHTH would not be able to collect the cash to match its revenues.  However, by booking 
future estimated gross cash inflows now and continuing to state there are no ongoing costs, 
EHTH is amplifying a mismatch between its revenue and costs.   
 
We estimate that after factoring in ongoing costs, EHTH cash collections do not even meet the 
initial receivable booked, to say nothing of the company’s later tail revenue adjustments.  We see 
such forecasts as unmitigated accounting aggression by EHTH’s management, who obfuscate 
with the help of the company’s black-box statistical model. 
 
 
Understanding the Cash Collection Timeline 
 
EHTH assumes an average Medicare Advantage member life of approximately three years when 
it books revenue for a given customer cohort.  However, gross cash inflows take much longer 
than three years to match the revenue EHTH recognizes.  Since many members churn much 
sooner than three years, long-lived members must, in theory, make up the difference.  We 
calculate that as a result, it takes nine years for the revenue EHTH books from MA members to 
be collected.  This long delay makes management churn assumptions ever more critical, even as 
member churn has steadily elevated from Q4 2017 to Q1 2020. 
 
To calculate cash collections for each member that remains paying, we assume that, consistent 
with company statements, EHTH’s Year One receipts per MA member are 40% of the LTV, paid 
upfront.1  We use the unconstrained MA LTV of $1,089, since 7% of applications do not convert 
to paying members, consistent with company commentary.  This yields Year One collections of 
$435 for a member, assuming the member does not churn during the first three months of 
enrollment.  If a member does churn in the first quarter of membership, EHTH is generally 


																																																													
1 Sell-Side Research Q&A with EHTH, March 2020 


Page 3 of 7
subject to full commission claw backs, which we also account for.2  Commissions relating to 
Years Two, Three, and beyond of a member’s plan life are equal to each other, so we split the 
remainder of the $1,089 unconstrained LTV evenly between Years Two and Three of the 
average customer life.  This yields $327 in cash collections per remaining member for each year 
after Year One.  
 
Per the company’s disclosures, only a fraction of members remains by the end of Year Three, 
which slows the pace of gross cash inflows relative to the three-year average MA life.  To arrive 
at a company-favorable churn estimate, we use EHTH figures.  First, we suppose 7% of 
approved applicants do not ever become paying members.  Then, we use EHTH’s stated yearly 
churns to derive the proportion of MA members leaving the platform each month.  Although we 
believe both the numerator and denominator of the company’s churn calculation are aggressive 
(see our April 8, 2020 report), we use these numbers in the absence of more accurate disclosures 
from the company.  Translating our month-over-month churn assumptions into annual churn 
along the lines of the company’s presentation, our estimates remain comparable.3 
 





Combining our estimates of cash collections per paying member per year with estimated member 
churn yields a nine-year payback period for EHTH’s booked revenues.  Such a repayment 
horizon stretches significantly beyond what the company’s three-year average life estimate 
suggests to investors, which, in our view, highlights the aggressive assumptions of EHTH’s 
revenue recognition. 
 
EHTH generates cash corresponding to its tail revenue only from members who still remain in 
Year Ten onward.  We forecast 24 years of total life for the cohort, which is company-favorable, 
given the average 65-year-old American can expect to live an additional 19.2 years.4  Even under 
these generous assumptions, tail revenue cash collections only amount to $227 per member,  or 
22.4% of the initial receivable booked.  To the extent that actual churn is higher than what 
EHTH forecasts, cash collections will struggle to match booked tail revenues. 
 
 
  


																																																													
2 EHTH Investor Relations representative, March 2020 
3 EHTH computes churn as a percentage of the company-defined metric Initial Paying Members, and it bases its 
calculations on its own estimates in addition to historical data. Source: EHTH Q4 2019 Earnings Call Presentation, 
p. 14 
4 https://www.ssa.gov/oact/STATS/table4c6.html 


Page 4 of 7
How Tail Revenue Adjustments Work 
 
For each MA member cohort, EHTH books revenue twice.  The first time is when an application 
is approved by CMS.  At this time, the company records revenue per member equal to the 
constrained LTV, which was $1,013 at year-end 2019.5  However, the company also maintains 
that it is in a position to capture revenue in excess of the LTV, owing primarily to two factors.  
First, a small, residual “tail” of customers persists long enough that commissions received 
exceed what the receivables balance implies.6  Second, the company’s MA commission rates for 
existing members have grown alongside increases in CMS-mandated maximum commission 
rates.  EHTH books tail revenue adjustments to account for this additional purported customer 
longevity and the higher commission rates.  
 
We understand that historically, EHTH only made revenue adjustments for customer lives once 
all receivables had been collected.7  As we explain supra, this collection period for the initial 
revenues booked lasts approximately a decade.  Given that no EHTH Medicare Advantage 
cohort of size has reached that age, eHealth’s revenue adjustments for MA were historically 
modest: $917,000 in 2017 and -$124,000 in 2018.8  However, in Q4 2019, EHTH executed a 
change of policy.  It booked all estimated tail revenue for cohorts aged three years or more, $50.8 
million, in one period.9   
 
The company’s stated reasoning for beginning to book tail revenue was that member churn 
becomes more predictable after the three-year average life elapses.  But this assertion appears 
unsupported by recent developments at EHTH.  As we laid out in our initial report, member 
churn and the company’s customer profile are markedly worse than those of the older cohorts the 
company is relying on.   
 
We believe that EHTH has now decided to book an additional ~15 years of forecasted 
commissions in order to squeeze further revenue growth out of their customer base.  In our view, 
plucking backward-looking estimated revenues from ever further into the future only amounts to 
a heightening of EHTH’s aggressive practices, even as those future revenues become harder to 
collect. 
 
 
Management Continues to Misrepresent the Business 
 
In a recent conference appearance, EHTH CEO Scott Flanders continued to defend the 
company’s aggressive use of LTVs, stating, “[ASC] 606 accounting was mandated for all 
participants in this marketplace because when we enroll a senior, yes, if no action is taken, the 
commission is payable in perpetuity.”10  However, we view this response as a misdirection: MA 
plan members pay monthly premiums and can freely switch their plans for three months of the 


																																																													
5 EHTH 2019 10-K, p. 48 
6 EHTH Q3 2019 Earnings Call 
7 Sell-side research report, February 2020 
8 EHTH 2019 10-K, p. 85 
9 EHTH 2019 Q4 Earnings Call Transcript 
10 RBC Capital Markets Global Healthcare Conference, May 2020 


Page 5 of 7
year.  Many businesses with similar opt-out customer arrangements recognize sales as they come 
in, rather than booking the tortured, multi-decade revenue forecast that EHTH does.  Publicly 
traded gym chains, commercial landlords, and home security providers generally recognize 
revenues in the period they are received.  An example of a cash burning business that booked 
estimates of future income in current periods is Enron.  Given EHTH’s voracious appetite for 
cash and highly speculative future cash flows, what could go wrong? 
 
Moreover, EHTH invests a significant sum in making sure that “no action is taken”: two former 
EHTH employees informed us that the company instructs agents to make outreach calls to 
prevent members from switching.11 
 
The sheer number of seniors leaving EHTH is troubling.  This is evidenced by the company’s 
growing churn rate, which surpassed 50% in Q1 2019 for the first time since ASC 606 adoption.  
Management downplays this trend, but EHTH’s churn has increased over ten percentage points 
YoY: 
 


 
 
In our view, it is unjustifiable for EHTH to book nine years of estimated customer cash receipts 
upfront, particularly when it is losing more than half its customers in the first year.  At the same 
time, the company’s blue-sky forecasts leave no room for the possibility that EHTH’s all-
important carrier relationships fray amid the declining customer lead quality furnished to 
insurers. 
 
Then, there is the matter of the years of costs the company continues to ignore as it recognizes its 
forecasted revenue.   
 
 
After Adding Ongoing Costs, Receivables Cannot be Recovered 
 
EHTH claims there are no ongoing costs to the business.  As we pointed out in our initial report, 
this fiction is foundational to the company’s optically profitable growth, allowing it to recognize 
years of revenue while ignoring the continued expenses needed to service members and the 
EHTH platform. 
 
We identified approximately $75 of ongoing costs per member per year over the life of the 
customer relating to customer support, revenue sharing agreements, accounting and back office, 
information technology, and other expenses needed to be able to continue to operate the business 
to service and support existing members.   This $75 per member per year is material when 
viewed alongside not just the three-year stated customer life, but also against the nine years of 
estimated cash collections underlying the LTV.   We booked these liabilities against the LTV to 
calculate variable income per member.  Over the nine-year period in question, total variable 
																																																													
11 EHTH Former Executives A and C 


Page 6 of 7
income does not even meet the initial receivables balance booked. 
 


 
 
We believe management’s refusal to acknowledge ongoing costs is intentional, and it masks the 
fact that EHTH is a fundamentally value destructive business.  In our view, management shows 
their brazenness when EHTH goes on to book further tail revenues despite failing to reach its 
stated MA LTV. 
 
 
Flawed and Misleading Accounting Masks Economic Reality 
 
We do not believe the Company has the data or history to justify booking sales as far away as 
2040, especially as EHTH has only been serving MA members in meaningful size for four years.  
Rather, EHTH’s adjustments are not only aggressive, as we demonstrated above, but they benefit 
from the confusion introduced by management’s statistical model.  In our view, EHTH is a stock 
promotion built on the back low quality (high churn) sales growth, reporting profits that do not 
properly match revenue to ongoing costs, and resulting in both the management and company 
issuing equity on the back of this short-termism and misrepresented business. 


Page 7 of 7
