575 Madison Avenue, 7th Floor
New York, NY 10022 


Tel: 212.792.7999 
Fax: 212.531.6153 











 
Attn:  
Chris Lu, Chief Executive Officer, Deloitte China 
Joseph Lo, Chairman, Deloitte China 
Charles Lip, China Audit Leader, Deloitte China 
Joe Echevarria, CEO, Deloitte LLP 
Vince Niblett, Global Head of Audit, Deloitte LLP 
 
Re: ChinaCast Education Corporation  
 
 
Dear Respected Executive Officers of Deloitte LLP and Deloitte China, 
 
 
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC (“Kerrisdale”) is writing an open letter to Deloitte with regard to its audit 
engagement for ChinaCast Education Corporation (“ChinaCast” and the “Company”). ChinaCast is a 
Chinese education provider that is publicly traded in the United States on the NASDAQ stock exchange 
under the ticker CAST.  
 
ChinaCast has been an audit client of Deloitte for more than five years and the Company received a 
standard audit opinion from Deloitte on March 16, 2011 for the fiscal year 2010.  
 
Enclosed with this letter is a research report on ChinaCast that Kerrisdale has compiled that discusses 
evidence that ChinaCast may be falsifying its financial documents filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  
 
In our report, we compare the Company’s financial statements filed with the SEC with certain historical 
Annual Inspection Reports filed by the Company with China’s Administration for Industry and Commerce. 
Based on our findings, the primary subsidiaries that comprise the Company’s E-Learning Group segment 
reported cumulative revenue to the Chinese government that is less than half of what has been reported to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009.  
 
Additionally, our report discusses evidence that funds may have been misappropriated during two of CAST’s 
college acquisitions. In the case of the acquisition of the Foreign Trade and Business College of Chongqing 
Normal University, Chinese filings show that the funds actually paid by ChinaCast may have been 
substantially less than what the Company reported in its SEC filings. In the case of the acquisition of Lijiang 
College in 2009, Chinese filings show that the acquisition purchase price reportedly paid by CAST was 
materially higher than prices received by the original sellers of the colleges at the approximate time of the 
transaction. Our evidence leads us to believe that funds were misappropriated by intermediaries during the 
acquisition.  
 
We ask that members of the Deloitte audit team for Chinacast read our report in full and be cognizant of the 
red flags highlighted in the report when conducting the audit for ChinaCast for the fiscal year 2011. 
 
Please do not hesitate to contact us. 
 
 
Sincerely,  
 
Sahm Adrangi 
Chief Investment Officer 
Kerrisdale Capital Management, LLC 
575 Madison Avenue, Floor 7 
New York, NY 10022 
Telephone: 212.792.9148
