www.presciencepoint.com 4 


United States Antimony Corp: Evidence Calls for Regulatory Scrutiny 


Stock Pump Points to Substantial Downside 


September 19, 2012 





INTRODUCTON 


In this report, we present a number of reasons why investors in United States Antimony Corp. ("UAMY" or the 


“company”) should be especially cautious.  We believe the company is currently violating both Regulation S-K 


disclosure requirements and AMEX listing requirements. Our evidence suggests the company’s board does not 


consist of a “majority” of independent directors, that UAMY may be trading on the AMEX in violation of that 


exchange’s rules.  We also believe the company is pumping its stock price and in doing so may be violating 


Regulation FD by providing potentially material, non-public information on a selective disclosure basis.  We 


believe these potential violations and the benefits of its AMEX listing have enabled a successful effort to inflate 


the company’s market valuation beyond reasonable measure.   


We urge the AMEX to halt trading in UAMY’s shares pending resolution. Further, we urge FINRA and the SEC 


to investigate these potential violations and to mandate corrective action in an effort to protect public 


shareholders.  


We have also discovered evidence that UAMY’s business model is structurally flawed, rendering it 


noncompetitive in price relative to cheaper foreign sources of antimony. With a few price checks, we were able 


to verify that imported antimony prices are being sold in the U.S. at least 10 – 15% cheaper than UAMY’s 


identical products. This structural price gap has persisted for many years, explaining why the company has 


never been able to earn a sustained profit. 


We believe UAMY has an intrinsic worth best approximated by its current book value of $0.20 per share, 


~90% below current trading levels.  

















Disclaimer: This research report expresses Prescience Point LLC’s opinions. Use of the research produced by Prescience Point LLC is at your own risk. This is a short-biased 


report and you should assume the author of this report and its clients and/or investors hold a short position and derivatives tied to the security of United States Antimony 


Corp. that will benefit from a decline in the price of the common stock. Following publication of the report, the author (including members, partners, affiliates, employees, 


and/or consultants) along with its clients and/or investors intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time 


hereafter regardless of the initial recommendation.  The author of this report has obtained all information contained herein from sources believed to be accurate and reliable 


and has included references where available and practical. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. The 


author of this report makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 


obtained from its use. Forward looking statement and projections are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and involve many r isks (known and unknown) that could cause 


actual results to differ materially from expected results. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the author does not undertake to update or 


supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. Prescience Point LLC is not a broker/dealer or financial advisor and nothing contained herein should be 


construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any investment or security mentioned in this report. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any 


investment decision with respect to securities covered herein, including, but not limited to, the suitability of any transaction to your risk tolerance and investment objectives 


and consult your own tax, financial and legal experts as warranted. READ THE IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMER ON THE NEXT PAGE.
www.presciencepoint.com 5 


Legal Disclaimer: 


This research report expresses our opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are set out in this research report.  


Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose 


only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain.  Any information contained in this report may include 


forward-looking statements, expectations, and projections. You should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections 


may turn out to be incorrect.  Use of Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should do your own research and due 


diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.   





You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along with or through 


our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in 


all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation United States 


Antimony Corp., and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of stock declines.  Following 


publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, 


short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Prescience Point LLC is not registered 


as an investment advisor.  





To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources 


we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 


owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of 


information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express 


or implied.  Prescience Point LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any 


such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  





All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Prescience Point LLC does not undertake to update or supplement 


this report or any of the information contained herein.
www.presciencepoint.com 6 


Background 


As a research firm rooted in the deepest soils of investigative diligence, Prescience Point goes to great lengths 


and commits substantial resources to verifying the claims companies make in their filings with the United 


States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). To date, two of five of the companies we have 


exposed as engaging in fraudulent behavior have been halted from trading and delisted from major exchanges 


to the Pink Sheets (ABAT and APWR). In addition, the SEC is pursuing a detailed investigation into APWR to 


determine whether it or any of its personnel violated federal securities laws. 


Consistent in nature with other troubled companies we’ve assessed in the past, a thorough analysis of UAMY’s 


accounts and filings reveals numerous red flags, including a history of never having produced sustained 


positive free cash flow, poor earnings quality, and a lack of disclosure and transparency. 


A prior report published by Spruce Point Capital Management (here) does an excellent job of documenting 


other red flags, including: 


 A promotional campaign that misrepresents the company’s earnings potential 


 Failure to provide investors independently verified proven or probable reserves in Mexico, which is a 


primary focus of its potential upside 


 Numerous undisclosed risks 


 Extreme overvaluation relative to proven antimony producers 


 A weak capital structure that disadvantages common shareholders in favor of preferred shareholders 


In this report, we’ll shed light on these issues and additional causes for concern discovered during our own 


research process, including the following: 


 Violations of Reg S-K 


 Potential violations of AMEX listing requirements that mandate a majority of directors be independent 


 Structural issues rendering UAMY’s business model as uncompetitive  


 A troubling web of insider dealing and related party transactions 


 Pumping the Stock Price and Potential Violations of Regulation FD 


 Undisclosed and material litigation claiming UAMY abetted a fraud 


 5 year old internal control deficiencies that remain unresolved 


 An auditor with its own audit deficiencies signing off on the company’s financials 





UAMY is in Violation of Regulation S-K: Failure to Disclose >10% Customers 


Regulation S-K spells out what companies are required to disclose in the nonfinancial portion of their filings 


with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a part of the 1933 Securities Act, Reg S-K is meant to ensure 


buyers of securities receive complete and accurate information before they invest. The complete body of this 


regulation can be found here.1 


                                                           
1 UAMY is not a ‘Smaller Reporting Company’ as defined by Reg-S-K; therefore, it does not qualify for the more lenient ‘scaled disclosure’ requirements afforded to 


such companies. Accordingly, UAMY does not check the ‘Smaller Reporting Company’ box in the cover pages of its HTML-format filings (see most recent 10-Q in HTML 



http://seekingalpha.com/article/823521-united-states-antimony-corp-a-commodity-stock-that-could-fall-80

http://ecfr.gpoaccess.gov/cgi/t/text/text-idx?c=ecfr&rgn=div5&view=text&node=17:2.0.1.1.11&idno=17
www.presciencepoint.com 7 


Item 101(c)(1)(vii) of the regulation explicitly mandates that companies name the customers that represent 


10% or more of the company’s annual revenues.  Specifically, they are required to disclose the following: 


The dependence of the (business) upon a single customer, or a few customers, the loss of any one or 


more of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. The name of any customer and its 


relationship, if any, with the registrant or its subsidiaries shall be disclosed if sales to the customer by 


one or more segments are made in an aggregate amount equal to 10 percent or more of the 


registrant's consolidated revenues and the loss of such customer would have a material adverse 


effect on the registrant and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. The names of other customers may be 


included, unless in the particular case the effect of including the names would be misleading. For 


purposes of this paragraph, a group of customers under common control or customers that are affiliates 


of each other shall be regarded as a single customer. 


UAMY provides the following disclosure about its customers in its recent 10-Q: 


During the six months ended June 30, 2012, approximately 86% of the Company's antimony revenues 


were generated by sales to three customers. Loss of any of the Company’s key customers could 


adversely affect its business. 


Its high customer concentration and absence of specific disclosures of those customers’ names appears to be a 


clear violation of Reg S-K. 


Absent and opaque disclosures appear to be a recurring theme for this business.  In the next section we 


explore in greater detail why we believe the company may be hiding its customers’ identities.       








We Believe UAMY may be in Violation of AMEX Listing Requirements 





In order to qualify for listing on the AMEX exchange, companies are required to meet specific listing 


requirements.  The governing literature can be found here. According to Section 802, “at least a majority of the 


directors… of each listed company must be independent directors...” Furthermore, the rules clearly state that 


executive officers, their family members, and board members who have done business with the company in 


amounts exceeding 5% of the organization’s revenue in any of the most recent three fiscal years shall not be 


deemed independent.  


Accordingly, it is clear that CEO John Lawrence and his son Vice President Russell Lawrence, as executive 


officers and relatives, do not qualify as independent directors. Because UAMY’s board is currently composed of 


six members, the remainder of its directors must meet the AMEX’s definition of independent in order for the 


company to be in compliance with the exchange’s listing requirements. 


                                                           
format HERE), instead acknowledging its status as an ‘Accelerated Filer’. However, it inexplicably claims ‘Smaller Reporting Company’ status in its XBRL-format filings 


(see most recent 10-Q in XBRL format HERE).  



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/101538/000135448812003933/uamy_10q.htm

http://wallstreet.cch.com/AMEXtools/PlatformViewer.asp?SelectedNode=chp_1_1_8&manual=/AMEX/CompanyGuide/amex-company-guide/

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/101538/000135448812003933/uamy_10q.htm

http://www.sec.gov/cgi-bin/viewer?action=view&cik=101538&accession_number=0001354488-12-004176&xbrl_type=v
www.presciencepoint.com 8 


The company released an 8-k in February 2012 announcing the appointment of its newest director Whitney 


Ferer.  It describes him as “one of the largest traders of antimony metal and oxide in the United States.”  UAMY 


describes itself in its 2011 10-K as “the only significant US producer of antimony products.” We found it 


difficult to believe that one of the largest US traders in antimony is not also trading the antimony of the only 


significant US producer.  Furthermore, we wondered whether the company might have something to hide by 


not disclosing its largest customers as mandated by Reg S-K.  


We conducted an independent investigation into Mr. Ferer’s dealings with UAMY and received in the email 


provided below an attestation from Ferer himself to the fact that he has done business with United States 


Antimony for over 25 years. It is very likely Mr. Ferer does not meet the AMEX’s definition of independence 


and that UAMY is trading on the AMEX in violation of that exchange’s rules.  


Mr. Ferer also sheds light on the structural issues facing UAMY that will continue to prevent it from making 


money in the future. Put simply, antimony is cheaper to purchase from foreign sources, even when factoring 


in transportation costs.  This explains why, even by UAMY’s own admission, they only supply 4% of the U.S. 


market for antimony products: Few rational purchasers would buy UAMY’s antimony product at such a large 


premium being that it is a pure commodity with no differentiating factors. 





Email Evidencing Board Member Ferer Likely Not “Independent” 














 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/101538/000107261312000212/usantimony-8k_17279.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/101538/000135448812001132/uamy_10k.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 9 


Complex Web of Insider Dealing 





Our findings regarding Mr. Ferer are just one of many instances that reflect UAMY’s opaque business dealings. 


In the diagram below, we have outlined the complex web of insider and related-party dealings. The key take-


away is that every individual appears to be benefitting at the expense of shareholders. For over 10 years, the 


CEO John Lawrence has benefitted from renting equipment and an airplane to the company. Moreover, for 7 


years the CEO’s son Russell Lawrence has been a member of the board and received payments.  Long-time 


board member, Leo Jackson, who recently resigned due to “health concerns” was also a beneficiary of the 


company’s Mexico growth aspirations.  In 2006, he benefited from the sale of the 50% interest in United States 


Antimony, Mexico S.A. de C.V. "USAMSA.” The 50% interest was acquired from Production Minerals, a company 


that was 34% owned by Mr. Jackson. Mr. Jackson has continued to extract fees from the on-going permitting 


and construction-related activities in Mexico, as have board members Russell Lawrence and Gary Babbitt.  


Further, Mr. Babbitt, a lawyer by training, has also been the beneficiary of company money by acting as legal 


counsel and receiving fees for his services.    








United States Antimony Related Party Dealings 

















Legal Fees Received
www.presciencepoint.com 10 


Pumping the Stock Price and Potential Violations of Regulation FD 


The SEC adopted Regulation FD (“Reg FD”) to address the selective disclosure of information by publicly traded 


companies and other issuers. Reg FD provides that when an issuer discloses material nonpublic information to 


certain individuals or entities—generally, securities market professionals, such as stock analysts, or holders of 


the issuer's securities who may well trade on the basis of the information—the issuer must make public 


disclosure of that information. In this way, the new rule aims to promote full and fair disclosure.  


We have obtained evidence that the company’s IR firm is disbursing information to a select group of interested 


parties.  To illustrate, we have provided a copy of an email dated September 9, 2012 from the company’s IR 


firm in which it leaks information of UAMY having been “approached by Mexican military for antimony 


products for ammunition.” Considering that UAMY has disclosed that it has a small customer base of high 


concentration, we believe this news could be deemed material and should be disclosed to all investors through 


an 8-k filing or publicly disseminated press release.  


Indeed, UAMY’s stock price rose ~7% on the Monday following this weekend distribution. By Thursday’s close 
it had risen 10%; at its Friday peak following this announcement, the stock had risen 16%. 
 


Selective Disclosure Email From UAMY’s Retained IR Firm 





Another email recently distributed could be interpreted as selective disclosure of earnings ahead of a public 


announcement.  On July 26, 2012, UAMY’s IR rep distributed an email announcing he would purchase UAMY’s 


warrants just days ahead of the company’s second quarter earnings, which were to be released on August 10, 


2012.2   














                                                           
2 UAMY 2nd Qtr Earnings: http://finance.yahoo.com/news/u-antimony-reports-record-sales-152100503.html 



http://finance.yahoo.com/news/u-antimony-reports-record-sales-152100503.html
www.presciencepoint.com 11 





Email From UAMY’s Retained IR Firm With Perception of Insider Dealing 








UAMY’s stock price rose 9% on the day of this distribution. By the next day’s close it had risen 15%; at its peak 
on the following day, the stock had risen 19%. 
 


We are not certain as to whether UAMY’s IR firm was in possession of material nonpublic information; and, we 
don’t know whether the IR rep ended up transacting in UAMY warrants. Regardless, we do believe that this 
type of offer from someone investors perceive to be ‘in the know’ ahead of an important announcement has 
powerful positive signaling effects and that such communications can be very effective in pumping the stock 
price.  
 
We believe UAMY’s stock today trades at levels that defy comprehension relative to our assessment of its 
intrinsic worth. 
 


 
 
Failed Promises to Show Proven or Probable Reserves 
 


UAMY has been baiting its shareholders for years on the promise that its Mexican operations hold vast 


amounts of antimony, gold, and silver. However, we find it baffling that they refuse to pay any geological 


experts to validate what they actually have.  Moreover, the company has a history of misleading investors with 


the promise of providing more information, only to go silent and provide no additional evidence of their 


holdings. For example, in an 8-k filing, UAMY announced that on April 19 and 20, 2012, Grupo Mexico, the 


largest mining corporation in Mexico, took samples at the Los Juarez mining concessions of USAMA. On April 


27, 2012, Grupo Mexico informed the Company that it would begin diamond core drilling for silver, gold and 


antimony on the Grupo Mexico concession adjacent to the USAMSA property.  After 5 months, the company 



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/101538/000107261312000358/usantimony-8k_17322.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 12 


has offered no single update to shareholders about the samples that were taken by Grupo Mexico or the 


results of any holes that have been drilled. Likewise, on August 20th, the company announced that assay results 


from some rocks in Mexico would be expected “shortly.” Nearly a month has passed, and the company has 


offered no results. This further illustrates the pattern of opaque disclosures, and the company’s propensity for 


not following through on delivering tangible evidence of its antimony holdings to investors. 





Another Potential Violation of Reg S-K: Material, Undisclosed Lawsuit Claims UAMY Abetted a Fraud 


We believe UAMY has also made material omissions and misstatements in its disclosures regarding legal 


proceedings against the company. A search of the public record reveals that UAMY, its wholly-owned zeolite 


subsidiary, some business associates, and its CEO John Lawrence were named as co-defendants in a case filed 


in 2010 alleging fraud, racketeering, and other legal infractions and seeking potential damages amounting to 


many millions of dollars. 


The plaintiff Compania Inversora Corporativa SA (“CIC”) is a Mexican holding company that has existed for over 


50 years and operates a diversity of Mexican and international business ventures, collectively employing over 


10,000 people. CIC claims that it was solicited to invest in a company that supposedly owned the mining rights 


over UAMY’s wholly-owned zeolite mining operation (“BRZ”) and told that its investment would go toward 


expanding the BRZ mine site and adding buildings and/or purchasing equipment.  The lawsuit claims that CIC 


was sold a bad bill of goods and that its $1 million investment never went toward expanding BRZ and was 


instead distributed to “former investors in a manner closely resembling a Ponzi scheme”. It states that it never 


received any securities or a return on its investment and that the business entity it invested in was later 


terminated without notice. 


In another potential violation of Reg S-K (Item 103), UAMY makes an incomplete disclosure regarding the 


situation in its 2010 10-K and makes no disclosures of the matter in any subsequent filing. UAMY’s 2010 10-K 


states only that UAMY “has been named in a lawsuit against one of its previous customers, currently we do not 


anticipate any contingent liabilities arising from these matters.”  


However, Reg S-K requires providing investors with “the name of the court or agency in which the proceedings 


are pending, the date instituted, the principal parties thereto, a description of the factual basis alleged to 


underlie the proceeding and the relief sought.”  UAMY discloses none of these items, information any rational 


investor would desire for conducting normal-course due diligence.  


Further, CIC’s lawsuit claims that UAMY CEO John Lawrence played a central role in selling CIC on the 


investment opportunity, that he met with the Plaintiff on multiple occasion, and that he was aware of and 


abetted the fraud being perpetuated. It also claims that UAMY/BRZ pocketed $300,000 of its misappropriated 


funds.  UAMY’s 2010 and subsequent 10-K’s, however, state the following: 


“We are not aware of any involvement by our directors or executive officers during the past five years 


in legal proceedings that are material to an evaluation of the ability or integrity of any director or 


executive officer.” 



http://finance.yahoo.com/news/u-antimony-begins-mining-milling-120000522.html

http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/UAMY-litigation-1.pdf

http://presciencefunds.com/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/UAMY-litigation-1.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/101538/000107261311000341/form10-k_17058.htm
www.presciencepoint.com 13 


We are not certain of the current status of this proceeding.  However, we should note that every other filing 


subsequent to the 2010 10-K states that “USAC is not a party to any material pending legal proceedings, and 


no such proceedings are known to be contemplated.” 


We believe that UAMY may have made material omissions and material misstatements in not being 


forthright in the disclosures it is required to make to investors.  





Internal Control Deficiencies Unresolved for Over 5 Years 


UAMY has a long history of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting.  The following 


internal control deficiencies were noted in UAMY’s 2011 10-K and have remained unresolved for the past 5 


years: 


 The absence either internally or on its Board of Directors the expertise to produce financial statements 


to be filed with the SEC. 


 The absence of proper segregation of duties within significant accounts and processes and the absence 


of controls over management oversight, including antifraud programs and controls; and. The president 


authorizes the majority of the expenditures and signs checks. 


 Inadequate documentation of controls and monitoring of internal controls over significant accounts 


and processes including controls associated with the period-end financial reporting process 


 The absence of controls over the selection and application of accounting principles that are in 


conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and the sufficient expertise in selecting and 


applying generally accepted accounting principles, including controls over non-routine transactions and 


controls over the period-end financial reporting process. 


A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance 


regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes 


in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In this case, UAMY’s auditor had to take extra 


measures in order to get comfortable with its financial statements due to inadequate processes that would 


ensure the reliability of its financial reporting. Further, this resulted in UAMY’s auditor identifying material 


misstatements in the company’s financial statements during its year-end audit.  


During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, UAMY finally took a step toward resolving these matters by 
hiring CFO Daniel L. Parks, a Certified Public Accountant, to assist with the financial statements. However, 
according to his biography, it is not evident that he has any experience working in the CFO role for a publicly 
traded company. Moreover, the CEO John Lawrence is still acting as Treasurer according to the last 10-k filed in 
March 2012, leaving open the potential for financial mismanagement.  





An Auditor with its own Audit Deficiencies Signing off on the Company’s Financials 


A common theme that has emerged from our experiences in bringing to light troubled companies is that many 
tend to share the same auditors.  UAMY’s current auditor DeCoria, Maichel & Teague P.S. (“DMT”) received a 
PCAOB inspection in 2010 that concluded the following:  



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Auditor%27s_report

http://pcaobus.org/Inspections/Reports/Documents/2010_DeCoria_Maichel_Teague_PS.pdf
www.presciencepoint.com 14 


The inspection team identified what it considered to be audit deficiencies. The deficiencies identified in 


one of the audits reviewed included a deficiency of such significance that it appeared to the inspection 


team that the Firm did not obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support its opinion on the 


issuer's financial statements… 


The PCAOB is an independent third-party “nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee the audits 


of public companies in order to protect investors and the public interest by promoting informative, accurate, 


and independent audit reports”.    


DMT’s average mining client is a bulletin board or pink sheet listed penny stock with an average market 


capitalization of $10 million.  








While we understand that making money in junior miners can be a crapshoot, we should note that not a single 


equity in the above roster has delivered a positive total return for its shareholder in the past 5 years. 





DeCoria, Maichel and Teague P.S. - Mining Clients


$ in millions


Share Market


Company Exchange/Ticker Main Assets Price Cap


Timberline Resources AMEX: TLR Montana $0.35 $20.1


Gryphon Gold Corp OTCBB: GYPH Western Nevada $0.10 $19.4


StarGold PINK: SGRZ Nevada $0.50 $11.1


Goldrich Mining OTCBB: GRMC Alaska $0.10 $10.1


Independence Resources PLC OCTBB: SNKTY Idaho/California $0.48 $9.9


Thunder Mountain Gold OTCBB: THMG Nevada/Idaho $0.12 $3.6


Gold Crest Mines OTCBB: GCMN Alaska $0.03 $2.7


Jayhawk Energy PINK: JYHW North Dakota/Kansas $0.03 $1.7


Average:  $0.21 $9.8


United States Antimony AMEX: UAMY Montana/Idaho/Mexico $2.65 $169.1


Source: PCAOB annual report 2011


https://rasr.pcaobus.org/Firms/FirmSummaryPublic.aspx?FirmID=8BAE49945D7390A140E11FD60CE0C9B5


Share Price Performance of DMT's Clients - Last 5 Years
www.presciencepoint.com 15 


Conclusion:  UAMY Appears Headed Back to the Bulletin Board  


It took United States Antimony 40 years to attain its listing on the American Stock Exchange, but based on the 


evidence it could be weeks before losing it. To achieve this listing milestone, the company had to inflate its 


stock price above $3.00 per share and make some corporate governance changes, such as creating an 


independent board. To accomplish the minimum share price requirement, the company appears to have 


embarked on a series of promotional campaigns geared toward retail investors, and based them on the hope 


that their Mexican operations would produce windfall profits for shareholders. As has been previously 


reported, the company’s Mexican subsidiary was once written-off as worthless and was ultimately acquired 


from a company director for a pittance. But, it is no wonder the company’s assets have historically had little 


value – due to structural issues in the global antimony market, US antimony producers are noncompetitive on 


price and struggle to make a profit.  


Moreover, related party transactions appear to be the normal practice for UAMY. Nearly all of their current and 


former directors have been beneficiaries of payments for things such as royalty payments, legal fees, 


equipment leases, aircraft rentals, and construction services tied to the Mexico operations. We have also 


provided evidence that Mr. Ferer, a recently appointed board member, is also not independent due to his 


admission that he has done and continues to do business with the company. In violation of Reg S-K, UAMY 


does not currently disclose who its largest customers are, so we are left to speculate whether UAMY is involved 


in large, undisclosed insider dealings with Mr. Ferer’s company.  


We have also found additional evidence of material and undisclosed information relating to litigation with the 


company’s zeolite operation.  This also fits the pattern of opaque reporting and limited disclosure to investors. 


We have not gained any comfort in UAMY taking adequate steps forward to bolster its governance and 


financial reporting controls. The company’s internal controls over financial reporting are reportedly weak and 


have not been remediated for multiple years. The appointment of a former CFO who lacks any public company 


operating experience does not provide shareholders any meaningful assurance that these problems will be 


resolved. However, perhaps most disturbing is that UAMY may be engaging in selective disclosure of material 


information, which would be a violation of Regulation FD. 


We intend to submit our findings to the AMEX, FINRA and the SEC for proper review. We urge the AMEX to 


halt trading in UAMY’s shares pending resolution of these matters. Further, we urge FINRA and the SEC to 


investigate the company’s potential violations and to mandate corrective action in an effort to protect public 


shareholders.
