5/20/2018 Jim Chanos transcript


https://www.ft.com/content/ef72eebc-1518-11dc-b48a-000b5df10621 1/6


JUNE 7, 2007


Chrystia Freeland, Financial Times US managing editor, interviewed Jim Chanos of Kynikos
Associates. This is a transcript of the interview, which you may watch here. In this segment Mr
Chanos discusses short selling and hedge fund regulation.


Financial Times: Thank you for joining us, Mr Chanos.


Jim Chanos: Well, thank you for having me.


FT: There seem to be not too many pure short sellers working right now. Is it a hard
area to specialise in given the long running bull market?


JC: Well, we like to say I think that we’re the embodiment of survivorship bias, but I think it’s a
very difficult way to make a living on Wall Street, which is why a lot of people don’t do it. I hope it
remains a difficult way to make a living because hopefully more people won’t do it. Having said
that, I think that there has been a winnowing out of the herd, if you will. It probably peaked out in
terms of dedicated short selling funds on Wall Street in 1990 interestingly enough, and then there
was another sort of culling of the herd in 2000, and then it’s been sort of a slow death, if you will,
for the last seven or eight years.


FT: Do you think companies are getting better at fighting short sellers?


JC: Well, when you say fighting short sellers it’s interesting, because William Sharpe, in his 1990
Nobel Prize acceptance speech, said that for the capital asset pricing model, which is one of the
building blocks of the efficient market hypothesis, said that unfettered short selling, and
unrestricted short selling was necessary for efficient markets. Now we don’t even have that in the
United States. There are restrictions. So I think that short selling plays a pretty important role in
the market place in terms of price discovery, ferreting out fraud, and a lot of other things that are
good for the markets.


FT: It doesn’t mean people have to like them though.


JC: I don’t think they’ve ever been… short sellers have ever been liked, but then again, I never went
into business to win popularity contests either, so I’m here to make money for my clients and my
partners.


FT: What’s your case against McQuarrie?


Front page


Jim Chanos transcript



http://video.ft.com/viewfromthetop/

https://www.ft.com/stream/128ff9cd-e828-3369-815b-ae73f51c0a43
5/20/2018 Jim Chanos transcript


https://www.ft.com/content/ef72eebc-1518-11dc-b48a-000b5df10621 2/6


JC: We were pretty public on McQuarrie Bank in Australia a few weeks ago because of our analysis
of their model, which basically rests on purchasing infrastructure assets at ever increasing
multiples of cash flow, selling them at a mark up into their trusts that they control, but which are
funded by outside investors. Some are listed, some are not. And then using asset revaluation
accounting to value up the value of the assets in the trusts, and then borrowing against that to pay
out dividends to the trusts; the dividends… the trusts are sold as income vehicles. So for most of
the trusts, the cash flow from the assets they hold, the toll roads, the airports, and so on and so
forth, do not cover the dividends. So they’re borrowing against it and using this accounting artifice,
in our opinion, to cover the costs. That is a business model I think that will be prone to a lot of
stress come any dislocations in the credit market.


FT: What’s your case against Moody’s, and does it apply to rating agencies more
generally?


JC: Well, Moody’s is a simple story. It’s structured finance. And Moody’s had its annual meeting
today, investor meeting, and raised guidance on the back of increased structured finance. And my
argument against Moody’s simply is, is they’re no longer a referee on the playing field; they’re
actually playing at this point. So although they’re wearing an umpire’s outfit, they have a Yankee’s
hat on. And I think that that’s the real problem in that they are so entwined in the structured
finance business as a ratings agency, and yet, because of the nature of structured finance, where
many of the pieces of paper once they’re split up are marked to ratings, that’s an important
concept.


FT: So is mark to rating a more general structural problem with structured financial
products?


JC: Well, the real problem, of course, with mark to rating is a reticence by the rating agencies to
precipitate any problems by lowering ratings, even though the market prices of the assets may have
dropped below the band at which the mark to ratings price would be for the hedge fund or
institution that owns it. And we saw some of this in subprime finance real estate where pieces of
paper were trading at, say, 60 cents or 65 cents on the dollar in the open market, and yet funds
were marking them at 80 cents, or 85 cents or 90 cents because the ratings hadn’t been officially
cut. Now that’s a problem, and that’s the crux of the Moody’s story really.


FT: What was behind your online gaming bet? Was that a political insight?


JC: It was not really a political insight, no. Well, first of all, all I had to do was read the
prospectuses of some of these companies that went public in London to realise. I mean, they
should have put a skull and crossbones on PartyGaming. You know, whether it was the background
of the individuals involved, whether it was the fact - and the prospectuses clearly said - that under
US law, their activities may be deemed to have been illegal, which is what happened. And then
5/20/2018 Jim Chanos transcript


https://www.ft.com/content/ef72eebc-1518-11dc-b48a-000b5df10621 3/6


there was a third point that I think people really missed, and that was I think the concerns from
law enforcement were not just due to gambling. I think that…and we did talk to law enforcement
people who were not involved with the investigations, but who knew the law, and knew the
concerns. And the real concern was money laundering. And I think that’s still a concern in this
area.


FT: Are there any new undiscovered Enrons out there?


JC: Well, I don’t know. Enrons don’t come around that often, quite frankly. And we were lucky to
be involved with that one.


FT: There’s a lot of talk at the moment about regulating hedge funds more closely.
What’s your view on that?


JC: I think the industry… most participants in the industry understand that an increased amount of
regulatory oversight is inevitable. The structure of that, I think, is what’s…


FT: Why is it inevitable?


JC: Well, I think that first of all, as hedge funds have taken more and more public money in the
form of pension fund and endowment money, that has raised the level of scrutiny in Washington. If
it was just strictly private, wealthy individuals, I don’t think Washington would be as concerned,
but now that there’s union money, pension fund money, endowment money in hedge funds, there’s
a certain level of responsibility.


FT: Which you think is appropriate?


JC: I think some level is appropriate.


FT: And is there a level of regulation that you think would be damaging?


JC: Well, I think our view is that an over amount of extreme mandatory regulation, I think, would
be counter-productive. First of all, I don’t think the SEC has the resources to police all the hedge
funds aggressively, as well as all the mutual funds. And I think that a lot of it could be done with
alternate compliance by information; by just updating certain questionnaires for example, either
quarterly or annually, to give the SEC, the regulators, the information they say that they want. And
then you’ve got the whole problem of the global views. Certain countries have different views. The
UK has a relatively benign view of self-regulation, as well as principles based as opposed to rules
based.


FT: Is that the right approach?
5/20/2018 Jim Chanos transcript


https://www.ft.com/content/ef72eebc-1518-11dc-b48a-000b5df10621 4/6


JC: I think it is. I think, generally, that is probably the way to go, but they have a pretty good
bureaucratic organisation in the FSA to do it.


FT: So you think it’s better than the SEC?


JC: I wouldn’t say it’s better, it’s just different, and it’s a different system, and for the UK it’s
worked.


FT: If America gets things wrong, would you see the industry moving to the UK?


JC: You know, people say that… that are worried about moving to the UK, when you say the
industry, I really bifurcate it. Capital moves everywhere. Capital will move to where it’s best
treated. And I’m not too worried about capital flows. For example, there’s a lot of concern that
we’re losing our IPO advantage to the UK, but history shows us that you don’t want to be the IPO
leader. IPOs tend to happen at market peaks in areas, so I’m not worried that the US is losing its
IPOs.


FT: So maybe the London Stock Exchange and Aim are in for some trouble?


JC: Well, Aim has some growing pains, I think. And we’re short of some entities that are tied to the
Aim for other reasons, but I think that… and I’m not wowed by the standards I see, putting my
hedge fund hat on again, I think the underwriting standards are a little lax on the Aim, quite
frankly, compared to the US. And I think the US should pat itself on the back for having stricter
standards. But having said all that, the concern I would have as a policy maker is that we lose
human capital; that human capital moves to offshore entities, to London, to Continental Europe, to
the Far East.


FT: Do you think that’s happening?


JC: I think it’s starting to happen. I think it’s starting to happen. My own firm is a good example. I
mean, we opened a London office and moved a couple of people that were out of our New York
office to the London office. And I think that, so to some extent, it is happening.


FT: Maybe that’s an inevitable and healthy response to globalisation?


JC: It may be, and remember, London has the advantages of location, which is going to be tough
for any other locality…


FT: You mean the time zone?


JC: The time zone. It is easier to run a global book of business out of London than almost any other
financial centre. And that’s something that the US can’t really do a whole lot about.
5/20/2018 Jim Chanos transcript


https://www.ft.com/content/ef72eebc-1518-11dc-b48a-000b5df10621 5/6


FT: Thank you very much.


JC: My pleasure. Thank you.


FT: And now Jim Chanos places his bets on long/short. Are you ready to play
long/short, Mr. Chanos?


JC: I am ready to play… the first word was what?


FT: Long/short.


JC: Okay. Long/short. Got it.


FT: Okay. US dollar?


JC: Short.


PR: Rupert Murdoch?


JC: Long.


PR: Google?


JC: User… long.


FT: Barack Obama?


JC: Long.


FT: Hillary Clinton?


JC: Long.


FT: Oil?


JC: Short.


FT: US equities?


JC: Oh, long, of course.


FT: US house prices?


JC: Short.


FT: Mitt Romney?
5/20/2018 Jim Chanos transcript


https://www.ft.com/content/ef72eebc-1518-11dc-b48a-000b5df10621 6/6


Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2018. All rights reserved.


Comments have not been enabled for this article.


JC: Ooh, don’t know. I’ve never met him. Take a pass on that.


FT: Polar icecap?


JC: Short.


FT: Thank you very much.


JC: My pleasure.


FT: That was Jim Chanos of Kynikos Associates on short selling and hedge fund
regulation. You can also hear him discussing private equity. Next week, Sir Howard
Stringer of Sony reviews the news on video for ft.com’s View From The Top.


Latest in Front page



http://help.ft.com/help/legal-privacy/copyright/copyright-policy/
