5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 1/13


China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd
Apr. 10, 2012 1:59 AM ET32 comments
by: Kerrisdale Capital Management


On Thursday, shares of China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.PK) were up nearly 15% on
the heels of two articles by Adam Gefvert, available here and here. Gefvert followed them
up with the two StockTalks "CMEDY.PK is taking itself private via a 3rd party. It could
reach $4.50 tomorrow now that the cat is out of the bag" and "Correction: it could reach
$5.00 a share."


In our opinion, Gevfert's posts were deeply flawed and nonsensical, and we think the rise
in CMED shares was completely unjustified.


First, let's review the publicly available facts on CMED. On December 15, 2011, CMED
skipped its coupon payment, did not disclose it via an SEC filing, and did not make the
payment by its January 15, 2012 grace period. In February, it skipped its next coupon
payment. Its director Lawrence Crum resigned in December 2011 and, again, CMED didn't
bother to disclose it. The company's stock was halted on February 7, and then de-listed a
mere three weeks later on February 28. The very short timeframe between halt and de-
listing implies that CMED never disputed the halting, nor cared. A bondholder committee
has tried to reach out to the company to negotiate, but there have been no updates since
CMED's original December 13, 2011 filing announcing its desire to restructure its debt
despite supposedly having more than $200 million of cash. Its bonds continue to trade
between 20 and 40, implying severe distress and a lack of progress in negotiations.


In short, we've seen no news whatsoever to make us think twice about our earlier
suggestion that China Medical has gotten tired of being a public U.S.-listed company and
is pursuing a management take-private at zero dollars per share.


Next, let's review Gefvert's absurd propositions.


Gefvert's article begins:


Although I had written a report today saying I wasn't sure what was going on, it
suddenly hit me. China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.PK) is taking itself private via
a 3rd party! They are using AER Advisors to do it.


What?!?



https://seekingalpha.com/article/481571-evidence-suggests-china-medical-is-taking-itself-private-via-a-3rd-party

https://seekingalpha.com/article/480891-clues-suggesting-china-medical-technologies-has-a-solid-balance-sheet

https://seekingalpha.com/article/334732-china-medical-technologies-does-missed-coupon-mean-company-will-go-dark

https://seekingalpha.com/article/480891-clues-suggesting-china-medical-technologies-has-a-solid-balance-sheet?source=yahoo
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 2/13


AER Advisors is a registered investment advisor whose website is available at
www.aeradvisors.com. Based on our viewing of the site, AER appears to be a small-town
financial advisor that manages a variety of ETFs, separately managed accounts and
custom portfolios. Here is an excerpt from their FAQ page in response to "Who is AER
Advisors?":


AER Advisors, U.S. registered investment advisor, is a private financial services firm
located in North Hampton, NH, co-founded by President, Carol O'Leary and Chief
Investment Officer David O'Leary. The firm was founded to utilize the unique stock
screening methodology developed by Mr. O'Leary in a variety of formats. This
research formula has been widely recognized and used by the institutional
investment community as a valuable research tool for nearly 15 years. The firm
manages two actively managed equity exchange-traded funds, (ETFs) in the U.S.,
traded on the NYSE. The ETFs are based on a flexible universe of over 3,000 U.S.
exchange listed stocks and attempt to outperform traditional index ETFs. AER
Advisors provides advisory services to Separately Managed Accounts (NYSE:SMA)
for banks, institutions, other RIA's and high net worth individuals, while continuing to
offer institutional research to mutual funds and hedge funds.


We're sure the professionals at AER are fine people, and have developed an excellent
stock selection methodology to generate attractive returns for their investors. We don't,
however, think that Carol O'Leary is the up-and-coming Carl Icahn of China, or is in
cahoots with CMED Chairman Wu Xiaodong to circumvent SEC insider holding disclosure
laws to buy shares on his behalf.


Frankly, we're not sure what Gefvert means when he says CMED is "taking itself private
via a 3rd party" and is "using AER Advisors to do it." We doubt he even knows what he
means. Is he saying that AER is planning to launch a takeover of the company and then
seize the assets in China? Is he saying that AER is planning to take the company private
and then flip ownership to CMED management for a profit or fee? Is he saying that CMED
management has raided the AER headquarters in North Hampton, New Hampshire and is
now using AER as a proxy to re-acquire full control of their own Chinese company?


Did Tianfu Yang take Harbin Electric private through a Fidelity mutual fund? Did Guoshen
Tu take China Security and Surveillance private through a T Rowe Price high yield bond
ETF? Is Gefvert's theory anything short of utter gibberish?



http://www.aeradvisors.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SMA
5/23/2018 China Medical Technologies: Notion Of Takeout Is Absurd - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/487281-china-medical-technologies-notion-of-takeout-is-absurd 3/13


