5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 1/6


China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy
Jun. 26, 2012 9:35 AM ET8 comments
by: Kerrisdale Capital Management


On June 15th, the bondholders finally pushed China Medical Technologies (CMEDY.OB)
into involuntary liquidation proceedings in the Cayman Islands. Below are links to the
Cayman Islands liquidation petition, as well as affidavits that were filed on June 15th.


Winding Up Petition - China Medical


Affidavit of Steve Cimalore


Affidavit of Cosimo Borelli


Affidavit of Kenneth Krys


The petitions and affidavits of the winding up process, which is the Cayman Islands
equivalent to a Chapter 7 bankruptcy liquidation process in the United States, make for an
interesting read. China Medical is a Cayman-based company, and therefore bondholders
are currently pursuing a liquidation in the Cayman Islands rather than in the United States.


The first relevant document is the Winding Up Petition. The petitioner is Wilmington Trust,
the indenture trustee for the bonds.


Throughout the petition, we can see that China Medical was not very responsive to the
bondholders. The petition has a section titled The Company's Failure to Respond, where it
writes:



http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131479

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131499

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131491

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131483

http://www.scribd.com/doc/98131479
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 2/6


The Company's Failure to Respond


33. The Company has failed and refused to communicate with the Petitioner with
respect to the events of default or the amounts now due and owing under the Notes.
As noted above, the Company failed to respond to the Petitioner's notices of defaults
and of acceleration. The Petitioner sent a copy of the 2 March Notice to the
Company's counsel as identified in the 6.25% Indenture, in response to which the
Petitioner received a letter advising that such counsel no longer represented the
Company in any matters. Additionally, the Company and its counsel did not respond
to email communications from counsel to the Petitioner.


34. Petitioner is advised that counsel to the 6.25% Noteholders and the 4%
Noteholders (together, the "Noteholders") has been unsuccessful in its efforts to
engage with the Company regarding the events of default.


35. The failure of the Company to engage in discussions with the Petitioner and the
Noteholders with respect to the events of default and the amounts due and owing is
consistent with a company that is substantially insolvent and unable to pay.


That doesn't seem like a very good sign. Some long equity holders of China Medical stock
had theorized that the company may restructure the debt with bondholders and therefore
continue existing as a public U.S. company. But if the company hasn't communicated with
bondholders thus far, is there really any indication it intends to restructure its debt?


As part of the petition, the bondholders have proposed the joint liquidators to be Kenneth
M. Krys of Krys & Associates and Cosimo Borrelli of Borrelli Walsh Limited. According to
the petition, the liquidators are authorized to take actions "necessary or desirable in
connection with the liquidation of the Company and the winding-up of its affairs and to
present the dissipation of the Company's assets". Mr. Krys and Mr. Borelli are qualified
insolvency practitioners in the Cayman Islands and have had prior joint liquidator
assignments where they liquidated Cayman Islands-based Chinese companies. Borelli, for
example, was the liquidator for Zhu Kuan Group, Akai Holdings, China Milk Products and
more than a dozen Cayman Islands-based Chinese companies that defaulted on bonds
owed to foreign creditors. Borelli has developed a reputation for aggressively pursuing
companies that have illicitly transferred assets to insiders, as recounted in a South China
Morning Post article here.


Value of Equity



http://www.borrelliwalsh.com/documents/News2009100601.pdf
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 3/6


I'm not sure how equity holders of China Medical expect to generate any recovery now
that China Medical bondholders have filed an involuntary Winding-Up Petition. The
company has not been communicative with the bondholders, the trustee or counsel over
the past six months since the missed interest payment, according to the Winding-Up
Petition. Now, the question is whether liquidators can locate any sources of value for the
$430 million of bonds and accrued interest outstanding. It could very well take years of
litigation to find out.


To us, there certainly seems to be far more downside to the stock price at $8.50 than
upside, given that $8.50 equates to a market capitalization of $225 million. With a
management team that has not kept up-to-date with SEC filings and has been relatively
unresponsive to bondholders since December, we continue to believe this stock is
fundamentally worthless.


Buyout Rumors


As a final point, we will address the 13D filings of AER Advisors, Peter Deutsch and
William Deutsch. We don't have any special insights into why AER and the Deutsches
have been purchasing shares of CMEDY.


But we don't see any practical way in which anyone could conduct a supposed buyout
here. The company has defaulted on its bonds and has been pushed into involuntary
bankruptcy. If any party wanted to do a take-private of China Medical, they would have to
make whole over $430 million of principal plus accrued interest of bonds. They'd then
have to write a check accounting for another $230 million of market capitalization, not
including a requisite takeout premium.


We're not sure why anyone would want to pay $650 million for a Chinese medical devices
company where management has essentially gone dark. As we have discussed,
management has been relatively unresponsive to both shareholders and bondholders.
Since missing its coupon payment, management has not filed any 6-Ks to update the
markets on business developments. The company did not report the resignation of its
independent director. When its stock was de-listed on NASDAQ in February, the company
did not appeal the de-listing. It has not filed quarterly results since its September 30, 2011
earnings report.


Any company that chose not to make a $5 million coupon payment when it supposedly
had $200 million of cash on its balance sheet is, in our opinion, telling the market that
something is wrong with the underlying business or their previously filed financial
5/23/2018 China Medical: Bondholders File For Bankruptcy - China Medical Technologies, Inc. ADR (OTCMKTS:CMEDQ) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/683201-china-medical-bondholders-file-for-bankruptcy 4/6


