www.presciencepoint.com 3 








A-Power Energy Generation Systems 


NASDAQ: APWR 


“Evaluating the Clouds Overshadowing  


A-Power Energy Generation Systems” 


Recommendation:  Strong Sell 


June 2011 


Disclaimer: This research report expresses Prescience Point LLC’s opinions. Use of the research produced by Prescience Point LLC is at your own risk. This is a short-biased report and you should assume the author of this report and its clients 


and/or investors hold a short position and derivatives tied to the security of A-Power Energy Generation Systems that will benefit from a decline in the price of the common stock. Following publication of the report, the author (including 


members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with its clients and/or investors intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of the 


initial recommendation.  The author of this report has obtained all information contained herein from sources believed to be accurate and reliable and has included references where available and practical. However, such information is 


presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied. The author of this report makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to 


the results to be obtained from its use. Forward looking statement and projections are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and involve many risks (known and unknown) that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected 


results. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the author does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. Prescience Point LLC is not a broker/dealer or 


financial advisor and nothing contained herein should be construed as an offer or solicitation to buy or sell any investment or security mentioned in this report. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any 


investment decision with respect to securities covered herein, including, but not limited to, the suitability of any transaction to your risk tolerance and investment objectives and consult your own tax, financial and legal experts as warranted. 


READ THE IMPORTANT LEGAL DISCLAIMER ON THE NEXT PAGE.
www.presciencepoint.com 4 





Full Legal Disclaimer: 


Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only 


and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain.  Any information contained in this report may include 


forward-looking statements, expectations, and projections. You should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections 


may turn out to be incorrect.  Use of Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your own risk.  You should do your own research and due 


diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.   





You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along with or through 


our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in all 


stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation A-Power Energy 


Generation Systems, Ltd. and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of stock declines.  Following 


publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, 


or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Prescience Point LLC is not registered 


as an investment advisor.  





To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources 


we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 


owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of 


information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  Prescience Point LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such 


information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  





All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Prescience Point LLC does not undertake to update or supplement 


this report or any of the information contained herein.
www.presciencepoint.com 5 


Executive Summary 


 
In this report, we present a number of reasons why investors in A-Power Energy Generation Systems, Ltd. (“APWR” or the 


“company”), as well as its auditor and the SEC, should be especially cautious. We believe that the company’s revenue and 


profit may be overstated in its SEC filings. Furthermore, a large number of related parties that have not been properly 


disclosed have been identified throughout our research process. A summary of our key concerns include: 


 APWR has a history of internal weaknesses over financial controls, which has resulted in an adverse opinion from A-


Power’s independent auditor. A-Power’s auditor issued an adverse opinion in the 2009 audit and APWR has yet to 


publish its 2010 audited financial statements. 


 Management’s compensation structure is egregious, offering enormous bonuses on an all-or-none basis for 


achieving lofty performance goals. 


 SAIC filings show that APWR is reporting significantly lower revenue and profit to the authorities in China. For 2009, 


SAIC filings showed approximately $25 million of revenue, compared to $311 million in SEC filings. 


 APWR discloses a number of “Related Party Balances” in which APWR is both lending money to and borrowing 


money from related individuals and businesses. However, management makes no mention of the actual 


transactions occurring between APWR and these related businesses. Our investigators in China have uncovered 


numerous additional undisclosed companies owned and/or operated by A-Power’s CEO. 


Company Background 
 


A-Power began as a Special Purpose Acquisition Vehicle, a ‘blank check company’, named Chardan South China Acquisition 


Corporation, organized on March 10, 2005. Chardan’s original mandate was to identify an attractive investment opportunity 


in China, buy some portion of that business for $30 million, and then bring that company public in the US. On May 11, 2007, 


a registration statement was filed in which Chardan announced that it had identified an attractive candidate. That candidate 


was the Liaoning GaoKe Energy Group Company, an engineering design firm specializing in off-grid electrical generators that 


recycle exhaust heat for use in industrial processes, resulting in increased generator efficiency and more reliable uptime. 


The acquisition would be consummated on January 18, 2008, with the newly formed A-Power acquiring the common stock 


of Head Dragon Holdings, the Hong Kong holding company owning the GaoKe assets. 


“What can go wrong if you have weak governance? In a word, everything. Money and property can be siphoned off; the 


foreign invested enterprise can be violating labor, environmental, or numerous other laws; or the China branch can be 


competing with headquarters for customers.” 


- Robert Collins and Carson Block, “Doing Business in China for Dummies” 





Material Weakness 
 


APWR has a long history of material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting. The first instance occurred 


during 2008. The following is an excerpt from the 2008 20-F:
www.presciencepoint.com 6 








Of particular interest to investors should be note (v) which cites “insufficient capital resources to permit well performed 


monitoring of internal controls” despite ending the year with over $44m of cash. With this much cash on the balance sheet 


it’s hard to imagine why management was not able to acquire the adequate human capital or develop the appropriate 


checks and balances infrastructure necessary to maintain effective controls over financial reporting. 


After reporting to the SEC that remediation steps had been taken, APWR again cited a lack of internal controls in 2009. The 


following is an excerpt from the 2009 20-F:
www.presciencepoint.com 7 


Ending 2009 with $166m of cash on the balance sheet, management still couldn’t find the time or resources to institute 


effective internal controls. 


As a result, APWR’s auditor expressed an adverse opinion pertaining to APWR’s internal control over financial reporting. 


Here is the letter from MSCM expressing an adverse opinion: 











A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 


reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 


generally accepted accounting principles. In this case, the auditor had to take extra measures in order to get comfortable 


with APWR’s financial statements due to inadequate processes that would ensure the reliability of APWR’s financial 


reporting. More simply, management has a lot of room to misbehave, and APWR's lack of sufficient internal controls puts 


the burden fully on the auditor to catch that misbehavior. 


As of today, APWR has yet to release 2010 audited financial statements. On April 7, 2011, APWR issued a press release in 


which CFO Kin Kwong Mak stated, “The scope of the audit field work that is necessary to bring the audit of our 2010 


financial statements to a conclusion was not immediately recognized…” . In other words, audited results have yet to be 


released because APWR and its auditors have hit sticking points in the audit itself. 


And so we’re presented with yet another US-listed Chinese company with accounting and audit-related issues. Given the 


company’s history of material weaknesses and caution amongst auditors resulting from a renewed focus by the SEC on the 


auditors of Chinese companies, investors in this case can hardly be surprised. In the interest of self-preservation, we 


encourage A-Power’s auditor MSCM LLP to carefully weigh what evidence they’ve collected that would indicate that APWR 


is accurately reflecting its financial position.
www.presciencepoint.com 8 





Perverted Incentives 
 


The incentive compensation guidelines below were first published in APWR’s S-4 filed May 11, 2007 and they have been 


repeated numerous times in more recent filings. The screenshot below was taken from the most recent annual report 


published March 30, 2010. 





Four things make this compensation structure startling. 


1) The enormous growth rate necessary for management to achieve performance targets. Growing your 


business from $14 million of profits to $87 million of NOPAT in 5 years is extremely difficult. 


2) Lack of a per-share metric, allowing management to achieve growth regardless of dilution rather than by 


making good capital allocation decisions. 


3) The value of the payouts is enormous. 


4) This is an all-or-none bonus, leaving no room for even the slightest underperformance. For example, in 2010, 


management was required to grow the business by 52%. If they fell short in 2009, however, and only 


generated $25 million of NOPAT, they would then be required to grow the business by 76% to make up the 


difference. Missing just one year would put all following years just a little more out of reach. 


Before going public, APWR executive management consisted of just one man, Jinxiang Lu, whose compensation from 2004-


2006 is outlined below:
www.presciencepoint.com 9 


At the IPO price of $8 per share, a 1-million share bonus is valued at $8,000,000. Lu would receive this bonus for 2008 and 


2009 as well, and then $16,000,000 in 2010, 2011, and 2012 for a total package value of $72 million assuming no share 


price appreciation. Growing the share price could obviously greatly increase the value of this bonus over time. Before the 


share price collapsed in 2008, Lu could have expected a $30m 2008 bonus. At the end of 2009, with shares trading at $20, 


Lu could have expected a $20m bonus. 


Additionally, because of the all-or-none nature of this compensation scheme, not only does Jinxiang Lu have this year’s 


bonus on the line, but all future years as well. If management reported only $25 million in 2009, Jinxiang Lu would be 


jeopardizing not only that $8 million, but the next three payments of $16 million as well. Hitting the 2009 target could 


effectively be worth $112 million. 


And this compensation scheme is not the only case of perverted incentives associated with APWR. The Chardan South 


China Acquisition Corporation made the decision to acquire GaoKe based largely off a report prepared by Genius Advice 


International Co., Ltd. (“GAI”). In its agreement with Chardan, GAI was to be compensated $200,000 for preparing the 


report, $66,700 of which would be paid for the first report prepared by GAI. The final $133,300 would be paid “upon the 


successful consummation of a business transaction with an operating entity in the PRC”. GAI prepared three preliminary 


reports on other companies before they were asked to prepare a full report on GaoKe. Without any incentive to uncover 


problems with the company, it’s not surprising that an investment decision was reached very quickly. 





Perverted Incentives 


 
Businesses that operate in China file their financial statements with the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. 


These statements are an excellent place to start piecing together the truth. Reputable Chinese companies submit financial 


statements to the SAIC that resemble those published in the US. APWR’s filings in China indicate that APWR is earning a tiny 


fraction of the revenue reported to the SEC and is potentially generating millions of dollars of losses rather than profits. 


A-Power’s organizational structure is complex but important for investors to understand. The schematic diagram presented 


in the 2009 annual report has been reproduced below. We will work through each subsidiary and when available, provide 


SAIC filings:
www.presciencepoint.com 10 


1) A-Power Energy Generation Systems, Ltd. (British Virgin Islands) – This is the holding company US investors are 


able purchase shares of. 


2) Head Dragon Holdings Limited (Hong Kong) – This is the holding company originally taken private by the 


Chardan South China Acquisition Corporation. This subsidiary manages the “Distributed Power Generation 


Business”. 


3) Easy Flow Limited (Hong Kong) – A holding company for the unprofitable wind energy businesses. 


4) Liaoning GaoKe Energy Group Company Limited (“GaoKe Energy”) – The main operating subsidiary of APWR 


responsible for “entering into contracts with [A-Power’s] distributed power generation systems customers and 


undertaking projects, as well as subcontracting work to GaoKe Design, LICEG Ltd. and to third party 


subcontractors”. This should be A-Power’s most important operating subsidiary, responsible for most of its 


revenue and earnings. 


5) Shenyang (Jinxiang) Good Luck Electric Power Equipment Co., Ltd. (“Jinxiang”) – A subsidiary with a 


manufacturing agreement with Norwin to build 750kW and 225kW wind systems. 


6) Shenyang (Ruixiang) Lucky Wind Power Equipments Co., Ltd. (“Ruixiang”) – A subsidiary established to 


manufacture and sell Fuhrlander 2.7MW wind turbines. 


7) Liaoning Gaoke (High-Tech) Energy Saving and Thermoelectricity Research Institute (“GaoKe Design”) – This 


subsidiary is 49% owned by the CEO, Jinxiang Lu, and his wife. 


8) Liaoning International Construction and Engineering Group Limited (“LICEG Ltd.”) – LICEG is a construction and 


engineering company in China with Class A licenses permitting it to undertake projects of any scale or size. It is 


not to be confused with LICEG Ltd., the holding company owned by GaoKe Energy. LICEG Ltd. was established 


so that GaoKe could utilize Class A licenses without actually having to obtain them. LICEG would transfer a 


number of its licenses and approximately 30 employees to LICEG Ltd., which is 90% owned by GaoKe and 10% 


owned by LICEG. Effectively GaoKe is paying LICEG employees in exchange for construction licenses. We’re not 


sure of the legality of this arrangement. 


9) Shenyang Longxiang Wind Power Technologies Limited – Incorporated in October 2009 as a “manufacturing 


company specializing in research and development, consultant service for wind turbine business”. Not 


grammatically correct, but this sentence from the 2009 20-F is the only description we could find. 


10) Shenyang Yixiang Wind Power Equipment Limited – Incorporated in June 2009 as a “manufacturing company 


specializing in the production of wind turbine components to establish a joint venture with GE Drivetrain 


Technologies, a unit of GE Transportation (China)”. 


11) GE Drivetrain Technologies (Shenyang) Co., Ltd. – A joint venture with GE Transportation to which APWR 


contributed 50% of the equity capital and took ownership of 25% of the company. A-Power received a Notice of 


Arbitration from GE Transportation on March 7, 2011, claiming that APWR had unresolved breaches of its 


contract. This indicates that a deal between APWR and GE is no longer on the table. Unfortunately, because 


this in an arbitration situation, the details of the dispute are unlikely to be released to the public. 


12) Shoulong Energy Co., Ltd. – A subsidiary in Thailand. 


13) Shenyang Power Group, Ltd. – This subsidiary is described by management as a “PRC construction company” 


incorporated in May 2009. 


14) Texas A Wind LLC – A joint venture with USREG to develop a wind farm in Texas. It’s difficult to determine how 


likely it is that this project will get off the ground, but the political landscape is described nicely in this report 


form MSNBC. 


15) EVATECH Co., Ltd – An unprofitable Japanese solar panel and electronics manufacturer purchased for $50 


million in 2010.
www.presciencepoint.com 11 


16) In the following chart we have consolidated the financials of APWR’s primary subsidiaries, translated our 


findings into dollars at an exchange rate of 6.8307 CNY/USD, and compared those numbers to the SEC filings: 





The table above shows the SAIC filings for GaoKe Energy, GaoKe Design, and LICEG Ltd., APWR’s three primary subsidiaries 


and those most likely to make a contribution to revenue and earnings. The magnitude of the discrepancy between the 


consolidated SAIC filings and the SEC filings is an indication that management may be lying to regulatory authorities. 


The remainder of APWR’s subsidiaries are inconsequential, un-locatable, or did not publish financial statements with the 


SAIC. Ruixiang, for example, seems not to have filed 2009 financials; however, its 2008 financials indicate that it generated 


no revenue and operating losses of 2.247 million CNY. 


The conclusions cautious investors can draw from this is that the business is materially much smaller than what is reported 


in SEC filings. 





Related Party Transactions 
 


Since inception, the company has been making and repaying loans to company insiders and businesses owned by those 


insiders. Surprisingly, despite disclosing the loan balances, management fails to make note of any business related 


transactions to and from these companies. The following is an outline of the “Related Party Balances and Transactions” 


disclosed by management. 2007 balances appear twice because management changed the participants on the list and the 


total amounts borrowed or owed without disclosing why. 2007a numbers can be found in the 20-F filed July 11, 2008. 


2007b numbers can be found in the 20-F filed June 30, 2009:
www.presciencepoint.com 12 


But what’s most important is that NO disclosure is made regarding what business transactions are taking place between 


these related parties. Are investors to believe APWR isn’t contracting services from these companies, or trading goods with 


these companies? Why is management associating with these businesses if they’re not working with APWR? This is an 


oversight worthy of an SEC investigation. 


Motivated by evidence that APWR is not fully disclosing related party transactions, we became suspicious that additional 


related parties may exist which have not received loans from APWR. The following companies are listed at lngkny.com: 


1. Liaoning High-tech Turbine Installation Engineering Company (辽宁高科汽机安装工程分公司) 


2. Liaoning High-tech Boiler Installation Company (辽宁高科锅炉安装安装分公司) 


3. Liaoning High-tech Electric Installation Company (辽宁高科电气安装安装分公司) 


4. Liaoning High-tech Thermal Engineering Installation Company (辽宁高科热工安装安装分公司) 


5. Liaoning High-tech Steel Structure Installation Company (辽宁高科钢结构安装安装分公司) 


6. Liaoning High-tech Debugging & Operating Installation Company (辽宁高科调试经营运行安装分公司) 


7. Liaoning High-Tech Thermal-Insulation and Eroding-resistant Boiler manufacturing Co., Ltd (辽宁高科筑炉保温防腐有限


公司) 


8. Shenyang (Ruixiang) Lucky Wind Power Equipments Co., Ltd. (沈阳瑞祥风能设备有限公司) 


9. High-tech Energy Saving & Thermal Power Designing Institute No.1 Branch (辽宁高科节能热电设计研究院第一分院) 


Six of the nine companies mentioned above do not match previously disclosed subsidiaries or related parties. 


We then instructed the local organization in China that obtains our AIC filings to search for additional companies owned or 


operated by Jinxiang Lu, A-Power’s CEO. This team found the four related parties that have been trading cash with APWR, as 


well as 7 additional previously undisclosed related parties. These seven additional companies do not match those presented 


in the SEC filings or on the company website. A summary of the related parties we have identified can be found in the table 


below:
www.presciencepoint.com 13 


The table above contains a number of important columns. A mark in the “Website” column indicates that this subsidiary is 


listed on the English or Chinese versions of A-Power’s website. A mark in the “AIC Filings” column indicates that AIC filings 


have been located by our investigator. The “Org Structure” and “Semi-Disclosed Related Parties” columns indicate if the 


subsidiary has been formally disclosed in the SEC filings, briefly mentioned in the related-party section as a lender or loan 


recipient, or not disclosed anywhere. The “Stroke Off” column indicates that a subsidiary has failed to publish recent AIC 


filings. This can be a sign that the company is no longer operational or just behind schedule. Interestingly, a company that 


owes APWR money is categorized as “Stroke Off”. The “Cancelled” column indicates that the registration statement has 


been cancelled and that the company is most likely no longer operational. 


Disclosed related party transactions are also confusingly opaque. For example, the Easy Flow Limited subsidiary mentioned 


above was brought into existence in a nonsensical manner. The first mention of Easy Flow was made in the 20-F filed July 


11, 2008. It describes a transaction in which John Lin, a director of the company, organized Easy Flow in June of 2007. 


Over the subsequent months, APWR transferred $23 million to him through a series of payments. Cash was moved out of 


the company into the hands of a director. Next year’s 20-F explains that in June of 2008, Mr. Lin “transferred” this subsidiary 


back to APWR. The specifics of this transaction are unclear in the financial statements, we’re not sure how much cash was 


transferred out of the company, and we’re not sure what assets were transferred back in. Investors are left guessing what 


cash flow statement line items might represent the Easy Flow transaction, and more importantly, we’re left guessing why 


this transaction was structured in such a bizarre way if not to hide the transaction from investors and auditors. 





Conclusion 
 


We hope that investors who own APWR and those considering buying shares at what appear to be a fundamentally low 


valuation familiarize themselves with the risks we've addressed. We also hope that the SEC and MSCM LLC take necessary 


precautions in protecting investors. 


Further due-diligence efforts on our part have led us in uncovering additional causes for concern. Efforts to identify 


customers of the core distributed generation business have almost all failed. As of the third quarter, the wind power 


business has generated negligible revenue. Nowhere have we found signs of encouragement.
