5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 1/9


CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows
Weak? (Part 3)
Feb. 3, 2014 1:51 PM ET
by: Reid D. Notes


Please read our disclosure at the end of this entry. All figures in CAD unless noted
otherwise.


This is our third in a series of entries on CGI Group, Inc. (NYSE:GIB). We remain short
CGI stock.


In this entry, we examine CGI's organic revenue growth and reported book-to-bill. We also
examine CGI's cash flows in recent periods.


We recommend that readers begin with our first and second articles on CGI. In those
articles, we discuss "cookie jar" accounting and CGI's acquisition of Logica PLC.


What is organic revenue growth? Why is it important?


Large acquisitions can make it difficult to measure how fast a business is growing. When
one company acquires another, the revenues in the acquirer's public financials can go up
even if the businesses underlying both the acquirer and the target are deteriorating on a
stand-alone basis.


"Organic" revenue growth is a measure used by investors that adjusts for acquisitions to
calculate the revenue growth of a company's underlying businesses.


Organic revenue growth is a key input for any standard financial model. All else equal, a
company that is able to grow organically deserves a much higher cash flow multiple than a
company that is only growing through acquisitions.


Can we measure CGI's organic revenue growth?


CGI has made two major acquisitions in the past five years: Stanley, Inc. in 2010, and
Logica PLC in 2012.


Sell-side analysts disagree on CGI's organic growth trends in this period. For example,
Deutsche Bank's research analysts state that CGI's organic growth has been negative,
where Raymond James' analysts state that it has been positive in all but one quarter since
CGI acquired Stanley.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GIB

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1947571-cgi-group-cookie-jar-accounting-and-the-logica-acquisition-part-1

https://seekingalpha.com/article/1965651-cgi-group-how-much-money-did-logica-lose-part-2
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 2/9


We do not know why some analysts are confused about CGI's organic revenue trends:
CGI's public filings unambiguously show that organic revenue growth of CGI's
businesses has been negative since the Stanley acquisition:


Fiscal 2013 - 2014: CGI has reported only one quarter of financials in fiscal 2014. Page
15 of CGI's Q1 2014 MD&A shows that CGI's revenues declined organically -1.9% year-
over-year if we exclude the effect of currency fluctuations. 


Fiscal 2012 - 2013: The Logica acquisition took place in fiscal Q4 of 2012. CGI does not
provide data to calculate organic revenue growth in each quarter of fiscal 2013. However,
CGI discloses data to calculate annualized revenue growth in fiscal 2013.


Note 24(a) of CGI's fiscal 2012 financials states that revenues for CGI would have been
$10,232 million had CGI acquired Logica at the beginning of fiscal 2012. This figure
suggests a -1.4% organic revenue decline to reported consolidated revenues in fiscal
2013. The Canadian dollar weakened relative to the Euro over fiscal 2013, meaning that
constant currency organic revenue decline over the period would have been even steeper.


Fiscal 2011 - 2012: Schedule C of a Business Acquisition Report filed by CGI on
November 5, 2012, shows that CGI and Logica combined generated pro forma revenues
of $10,412 million in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011. This implies organic
revenue decline of -1.7% in fiscal 2012. Exchange rates between the Canadian dollar and
the Euro supported CGI's reported revenue growth in fiscal 2012 as they did in 2013.
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 3/9


Fiscal 2010 - TTM ended 6/30/2012: CGI acquired Stanley in August of 2010, and CGI's
last quarterly report before the Logica acquisition was for the period ended 6/30/2012.


CGI's fiscal 2010 financials state that CGI would have had revenues of $4,556 million had
the Company acquired Stanley at the beginning of the fiscal year. We compare this $4,556
million figure to CGI's reported revenues for the trailing twelve months ended 6/30/2012
and find that annualized revenues declined organically -8.5% over the corresponding
period.


Currency moves in this 21-month period were volatile but likely had a minimal overall
impact on organic growth, as did CGI's switch from reporting under Canadian GAAP to
reporting under IFRS in 2011.


The calculations above show that the organic revenue growth of CGI's businesses
has been consistently negative for the past several years. We do not know of any
basis for claims by sell-side analysts that CGI's organic revenue growth has been positive.


What is the book-to-bill? Why does it matter to CGI?


Each quarter, CGI reports a "bookings" figure. Bookings represent future revenues of new
contract wins, extensions, and renewals signed by CGI during the period. As CGI
generates bookings, they are added to CGI's backlog of revenues. CGI's backlog is
reduced as contracts are completed and the backlog is converted into revenues.


CGI's bookings correspond to CGI's "book-to-bill" ratio, which is also reported each
quarter. The book-to-bill is the ratio between CGI's bookings in a given quarter and the
revenue recognized by CGI in that same quarter.
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 4/9


Sell-side analysts closely track CGI's book-to-bill because they believe it is a predictor of
CGI's future growth prospects. Analysts believe that if a company consistently generates a
book-to-bill above 100%, a company will grow revenues organically. Following CGI's
earnings announcement last week, several sell-side analysts cited CGI's book-to-bill as a
bullish signal for future growth.


CGI's management also explicitly targets a book to bill ratio above 100%. The MD&A
states that management is "committed to maintaining a target [book-to-bill] ratio greater
than 100% over a 12-month period."


Can investors trust CGI's book-to-bill?


CGI's reported book-to-bill ratio has been above 100% in every fiscal year since 2008.


We do not know what could plausibly account for the discrepancy between CGI's reported
book-to-bill (which reached 124% in 2010) and the substantial organic revenue decline we
have seen since the Stanley acquisition in 2010.


Currency movements do not explain this inconsistency. The Canadian dollar has devalued
relative both to the Euro and the US dollar by approximately 7% and 4%, respectively,
from 9/30/2010 through 12/31/2013. The delta between the expected growth implied by
CGI's book-to-bill and the actual rates of organic decline is much larger than could be
accounted for by these currency moves.


If we assume that CGI's book-to-bill is not overstated, it may be the case that recent
bookings relate to extremely long-dated business that may be prone to cancellation.


Has CGI shifted the definitions of bookings and backlog?


CGI does not explicitly define "bookings," but the Company does define "backlog."


We noticed a small change in the definition of "backlog" in CGI's MD&A in the third fiscal
quarter of 2012. The change is as follows:
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 5/9


Quarter ended March 31, 2012: "Backlog - represents management's best estimate of
revenue to be realized in the future based on the terms of respective client agreements
active at a point in time."


Quarter ended June 30, 2012: "Backlog - represents management's best estimate of
revenue to be realized in the future based on the terms of respective client agreements
in effect at a point in time."


We do not know if, in CGI's usage, it is possible for a client agreement to be in effect but
not active. For example, we do not know whether a contract that is booked three years in
advance, but is not being worked on today, is in effect but not active. If so, current
bookings numbers would be elevated relative to prior bookings numbers.


Will cash flows improve in future quarters?


In the fiscal Q1 2014 financials, CGI reported negative free cash flow to equity holders
(CFO - capex - contract costs - purchase of intangibles). Cash flow was affected by an
increase in working capital accounts of more than $200 million in Q1 2014, which was due
in part to an increase in accounts receivable. The increase in accounts receivable may
partly reverse in future periods.


In the Q1 2014 conference call, CGI's management drew investors' attention to CGI's
operating cash flow, excluding integration payments, for the trailing twelve months ended
12/31/2013. This figure amounts to $819 million and is shown on slide 12 of the earnings
deck.


We would make two points:


Short-term accrued compensation has risen over $200 million in the trailing twelve
months. Had accrued compensation due within twelve months remained flat over this
period, operating cash flow plus integration payments would have been less than $620
million. (We assume that CGI will eventually pay employees their bonuses).


CGI regularly spends cash on purchasing PP&E, contract costs, and intangible assets.
Over the trailing twelve months, total expenditures on these three items was over $260
million.


Operating cash flow before integration payments, less the cash benefit from growth of
accrued compensation, less the disbursements on PP&E, contracts costs, and intangibles,
would have been less than $360 million in the trailing twelve months.
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 6/9


Are bullish sell-side analysts admitting that the bears are right?


We were confused by a research note published by TD analysts Scott Penner and Doug
Taylor this morning that was written to refute "bearish arguments" related to CGI's
accounting. CGI bears such as Deutsche Bank have argued that CGI's accruals will
generate earnings but no corresponding cash flows.


In today's note, the TD analysts argue that the bears are wrong, yet they also write the
following sentence: "We believe that accrual accounting has given rise to about $285mm
of remaining working capital that will roll into income with no impact on cash."


We are confused because the TD analysts appear to be confirming the most important
element of the bear story - that CGI's accruals are creating a significant discrepancy
between earnings and cash flow.


Furthermore, the analysts do not indicate the source of this $285 million estimate, nor do
they address whether accruals have created a discrepancy between earnings and cash
flows in prior periods.


The TD analysts also commit a very significant error in their valuation model. They take
the $285 million in "remaining working capital that will roll into income" and add this
number to their target enterprise value to back into an implied EBITDA multiple that is
adjusted for the working capital drag.


In fact, the valuation effect of the $285 million depends on the number of periods over
which the analysts expect working capital to expand by $285 million.
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 7/9


If working capital is expected to increase by $285 million in a single year, then the figure
should be multiplied by the analysts' target earnings multiple. The TD analysts suggest
investors use a 14x multiple in fiscal 2015 EPS. On this multiple, the negative effect on
CGI's valuation would be $3,990 million pre-tax or roughly $2.6 billion after tax, rather than
$285 million.


We suggest that investors relying on TD's research revise their analysis accordingly.


Summary


In this note, we have discussed the following:


Organic revenue growth is a key input to any standard valuation model. Organic
revenue growth adjusts a company's reported revenue growth for acquisitions.


Sell-side analysts disagree on CGI's organic revenue growth since the Stanley
acquisition in 2010. Some analysts state that CGI has grown organically over this
period.


CGI's own filings unambiguously show that CGI's businesses experienced negative
organic growth since the Stanley acquisition.


CGI's book-to-bill is used by analysts as a predictor of future organic revenue growth.
In theory, a book-to-bill above 100% should correspond to future revenue growth.


CGI has reported a book-to-bill greater than 100% in every fiscal year since 2008 even
though CGI's businesses have seen consistent organic decline since the Stanley
acquisition. Currency movements cannot account for this discrepancy.


CGI changed its definition of "backlog" in fiscal Q3 of 2012. We do not know the
importance of the definition change.


CGI generated negative free cash flow to equity holders in fiscal Q1 of 2014, which
was reported last week.


In the trailing 12 months ended 12/31/2013, CGI's short-term accrued compensation
liability increased by over $200 million. Had short-term accrued compensation
remained flat in 12 months ended 12/31/2013, operating cash flow before integration
payments, less the disbursements on PP&E, contracts costs, and intangibles, would
have been less than $360 million.
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 8/9


A TD research note published this morning makes significant errors in financial
analysis and appears to concede that there will be a significant discrepancy between
CGI's earnings and cash flows going forward.


In subsequent notes, we will analyze CGI's margins.


Full Disclaimer:


This article is for informational purposes only and is not investment advice, and does not
constitute an agreement, offer, a solicitation of an offer, or a recommendation to purchase
or sell any particular security or pursue any investment or trading strategy. This article
should not be construed as legal, tax, investment, financial or other advice. This analysis
reflects our current opinions regarding CGI Group, Inc. Funds managed by us have an
economic interest in the price movement of CGI Group, Inc.'s securities and specifically a
decrease in the price of CGI Group Inc.'s shares. Our views and these economic interests
are subject to change and we expressly disclaim any obligation to update the data,
information or opinions contained in this analysis. We acknowledge that there may be
confidential information in the possession of the companies discussed in this presentation
that could lead such companies to disagree with our conclusions. Although we may do so,
we do not expect to announce subsequent changes in our thinking or economic interests
regarding CGI Group, Inc., but it is possible that there will be developments in the future
that cause us to change our holdings in CGI Group, Inc.'s securities. We have based this
analysis on public sources, including CGI Group, Inc.'s public filings, which can be
obtained at sedar.com and sec.gov. While we believe the information presented in this
article to be accurate, we make no representation or warranty to that effect, and we
cannot guarantee that any projection or opinion expressed in this article will be realized.


Disclosure: I am short GIB. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions.
I am not receiving compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company
whose stock is mentioned in this article.


Additional disclosure: Please see full disclaimer at the bottom of this article. This article
is for informational purposes only and is not investment advice, and does not constitute an
agreement, offer, a solicitation of an offer, or a recommendation to purchase or sell any
particular security or pursue any investment or trading strategy. Funds managed by us
have an economic interest in the price movement of CGI Group, Inc.’s securities and
specifically a decrease in the price of CGI Group Inc.’s shares.


 Like this article



http://sedar.com/

http://sec.gov/
5/22/2018 CGI Group: Can You Trust CGI's Book-To-Bill? Why Are Cash Flows Weak? (Part 3) - CGI Group Inc. (NYSE:GIB) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1989281-cgi-group-can-you-trust-cgis-book-to-bill-why-are-cash-flows-weak-part-3 9/9


