5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 1/17


Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore
Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining
Nov. 3, 2013 3:38 PM ET35 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Odyssey Marine Exploration Co (NASDAQ:OMEX):


Do Investors Know What Lies Beneath the Surface?


Executive Summary for OMEX Investigative Report - we have spent over 6 months doing
an in-depth investigative report on OMEX, our full report can be found at:
www.omextruth.com


As of October 31, 2013:


Target Price: $0.00 Thesis: Strong Sell


Market Cap: $230mm (80mm x $2.84/sh) Shareholder's Equity: ($5.6mm)


Total Cash: $10mm Total Debt: $20mm


Net Loss 2012 - 2008, respectively: ($18.2mm); ($16.2mm); ($23.3mm); ($18.6mm);
($24.8mm)


1)Unclear how much of this cash resides in the US, OMEX formed offshore subsidiaries in
2013


2)As of June 30, 2013, over $5.3mm of this debt is convertible with a "death spiral"
conversion feature that allows for the payments to be converted to stock at a 15%
discount to market


"Our talented people, global presence, financial strength and massive market knowledge
have created our sustainable and unique businesses. [Our new business models] will
accelerate their growth. We plan to leverage all of these competitive advantages to create
significant value for our shareholders."


-Enron's 2000 (Final) Letter to shareholders, published 7 months before bankruptcy


OMEX was founded by and is currently run by expert stock promoters who have
been sued by the SEC.


1 2



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://www.omextruth.com/
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 2/17


Greg Stemm and John Morris's previous shipwreck hunting company Seahawk
(SHWK: $0.0012) was sued by the SEC. They refused to cooperate with government
subpoenas and had a stop order placed on their stock .
Since 2000, OMEX executives and directors have received cash compensation over
$20mm and have net sold $5mm of stock, shareholders have been diluted 7-X and
accumulated losses of $180mm .
We believe the purpose of OMEX is to serve as a vehicle for OMEX insiders to live a
life of glamor hunting the ocean while disappointed investors foot the bill.


We believe OMEX stock is worth $0.00 and if OMEX is unable to raise equity they
will be forced to file bankruptcy within the next 6-12 months.


In spite of the recent Gairsoppa success, OMEX's business lines of historical
shipwrecks and commodity shipwrecks have averaged $20mm of annual losses over
the past 5 years and we believe are unlikely to repay OMEX's growing debt burden.
The CEO has publicly stated they do not have enough cash to operate through the end
of 2014  and carries their debt at a discount to face value on their SEC financials .
As highlighted by the "Black Swan" debacle, we believe UNESCO's new regulations to
protect national gravesites and heritage make for-profit historic shipwreck hunting
unviable.


We believe OMEX's new business of undersea mineral exploration is a pipedream
and worth zero.


We believe that management representations of "$179mm of Off Balance Sheet Value"
in equity stakes are inflated by at least a factor of 10 and we question whether they are
based on non-arm's length transactions.
In early 2013, OMEX created a new business "Oceanica" that utilizes opaque offshore
subsidiaries in Panama and Bahamas that we question how there could be any valid
business purpose and are reminiscent of Enron's use of off balance sheet entities to
obfuscate the true nature of cash transfers and inflate valuations.
We believe that Neptune Minerals, Inc. - founded by John Morris, co-founder and
former CEO of OMEX - is also worthless and is simply a reincarnation of Neptune
Minerals, Plc, a failed public company in the UK which John Morris acquired for
$140,000 in 2011.
According to an attachment to OMEX's recent 10Q, via Oceanica, OMEX is partners
with a Panamanian company, DNA Ltd Inc. Our investigation finds substantial
evidence that DNA's principal members are connected to at least 3 alleged pump and


1


2


3 4
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 3/17


dump frauds and admitted involvement in the alleged $400mm money laundering
scandal, "Teegan Inc."


What do we want? What is our motivation?


We fundamentally want the same thing that anyone long OMEX stock wants: Answers to
our questions and more specific information about the company's operations, not vague
platitudes or promises.


Our actions are all consistent with our words. We are short the stock because we believe if
the Company provides true and clear answers to the serious questions we have raised
then it will be readily apparent to ALL investors that the company, as it is currently
performing, has approximately zero economic value to shareholders. We may be wrong in
that belief and the stock may be worth some higher number, in which case, great, that's
how markets are supposed to work! Our policy is to admit when we have been proven
wrong very quickly and learn from it, there are lots of other stocks to spend time on.


If you own the stock, you deserve answers more than anyone, so demand them from
YOUR company. As shareholders, management reports to YOU.


Our Key Questions for OMEX that Shareholders Deserve Answers to:


1)Please explain OMEX co-founder John Morris's involvement in Chatham Rock
Phosphate, Neptune Minerals, and Oceanica?


2)How much cash have John Morris and affiliated entities received from OMEX since
2008?


3)How much cash has OMEX received from John Morris and affiliated entities since 2008?


4)Why did OMEX improve the terms on the Galt Resources deal for ex-CEO and current
consultant John Morris after the original contract had been signed? Why is this fair to
shareholders?


5)Has Josh Adam, SVP of Neptune and Manager of Mako, ever received compensation
directly or indirectly from OMEX?


6)Is the "Brad Baker" who appears to have signed documents on behalf of Dorado (later,
renamed Neptune), an ostensibly arms-length entity, the same Brad Baker that is on
OMEX's board?
5/21/2018 Investigative Report Questions Odyssey Marine's New Offshore Subsidiaries And Undersea Mining - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1800572-investigative-report-questions-odyssey-marines-new-offshore-subsidiaries-and-undersea-mining 4/17


