5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 1/23


Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins
Sep. 8, 2014 7:15 AM ET44 comments
by: Meson Capital Partners


Summary


According to local Mexican media, Oceanica's Environmental Impact Assessment
(EIA) that has been repeatedly delayed by OMEX, leaked out on social media
yesterday.


Detail highlighted: only 80 people required (2x shifts of 40) operating the ship to
operate 24x7 for 50 years to dredge the phosphate - are any local jobs created?


Paradoxically, the marine field is given the name "Don Diego" which alludes to the
conquest and subjugation of the New World by foreign powers, "Don Diego" cousin
of Hernán Cortés.


Formal opposition document from the Advisory Council for Sustainable Development
of the Northwest Region condemns the project citing numerous risks including "mass
mortality" of marine life due to anoxic conditions.


Given that "dredging offshore phosphate has never been done anywhere in the
world" according to this opposition communication, a rapid approval seems unlikely
to us without extensive study.


It has now been 3 1/2 weeks since the last Odyssey Marine Exploration Co
(NASDAQ:OMEX) conference call where the incoming CEO claimed, "We are awaiting
final feedback from one more stakeholder before filing. They have promised their
response by next week."


As shareholders have patiently waited for the filing, it appears that the EIA is leaking out in
Mexico as of yesterday while OMEX's CFO presented at an investor conference.


Oceanic Explorations presented to SEMARNAT mining project for the Gulf of Ulloa
(English Translation via Google Translate)


Oceanica Operating Plan: 4X more revenue per employee than other mining
companies?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/OMEX

http://files.shareholder.com/downloads/OMEX/3446693014x0x776680/c7601976-facc-4d1f-9ac9-67840cff0e2e/OMEX%20Transcript%20Q2%202014%20Conf%20Call-FINAL.pdf

http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/exploraciones-oceanicas-presenta-ante-la-semarnat-proyecto-minero-para-el-golfo-de-ulloa/

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/bcssep4.pdf
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 2/23


The article linked above and translated in English here highlights that the designated
project name for the mining field is "Don Diego" which alludes to the conquest and
subjugation of the New World by foreign powers, "Don Diego" was the cousin of Hernán
Cortés who made the first explorations of the Pacific coast of Mexico, one notable item
apparently leaked from the EIA claims that the ship will run 24x7 dredging with a crew of
40 people x 2 shifts (80 people full time or 200 people if we assume 50% over head and 2
crew rotations on/off shore) and dredge up 7 million tonnes of phosphate ore per year for
50 years. Assuming 50% phosphate content in the ore, at $110/tonne, this is $385mm/yr
of revenue. This claim about the leaked EIA is consistent with prior OMEX statements
relating to the size of the resource in their press releases.


How does this operation stack up to other mining operations - as a gut check? 200 people
vs $385+ Million of revenues?



https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/bcssep4.pdf

https://finance.yahoo.com/news/odyssey-marine-provides-oceanica-resources-130000082.html
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 3/23


You decide: does this make sense? Can Oceanica overnight leap to become the 22nd
largest public mining company in the US (by revenue) with a revenue rate per employee
~4X higher than average? Or does this whole plan seem more than a little half-baked?


Official Opposition Documents Highlight Significant Risks that Need to be
Evaluated: This Takes Time


The first official opposition from the SEMARNAT website we have found calling for
detailed further study appears below. Permitting is not, to our knowledge, a rapid process
for anything that impacts the public. For example - down the street from our offices in
California is a building that has been abandoned for over 3 years - it is an eyesore and an
unmaintained hazard. One year ago it was acquired by a developer for about $1mm with
the intention to convert it to a block of 6 apartments. After a YEAR of full time effort and
$100k spent on studies demanded by the local government on how his redevelopment
would impact the surrounding area: sidewalks, lighting, etc. the permit still is not approved
even though he's given numerous concessions to the city!


For mining projects that have far broader impact than a small apartment building, the
amount of study required is far broader - for a new process of undersea mining that has
never been done anywhere in the world, risks multiply. Further, there is no urgency that
Mexico is going to run out of phosphate, as some have indicated, given there is already
large onshore production and inexpensive foreign import availability.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2345235-oceanica-dying-fast-mexico-senate-attacks
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 4/23


Along with this local EIA leak linked here in Mexican media, we have uncovered a more
official document to SEMARNAT from the Consejo Consultivo para el Desarrollo
Sustentable de la Región Noroeste (Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the
Northwest Region) which we have presented below translated via Google Translate
without commentary. This is report delivered to SEMARNAT and can be found on the
official SEMARNAT website link.


We have also uploaded the documents and converted to PDF form for easier viewing:


SEMARNAT Report by Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the Northwest
Region (original Spanish)


(English Translation)


English Translation (via Google Translate) below presented without commentary:


Key recommendation: CCRDS-NO / V / 14/36


MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES


THIS



http://www.bcsnoticias.mx/exploraciones-oceanicas-presenta-ante-la-semarnat-proyecto-minero-para-el-golfo-de-ulloa/

http://www.semarnat.gob.mx/sites/default/files/documentos/transparencia/participacionciudadana/rnoroeste/ccrds-no-v-14-36.docx

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/ccrds-no-v-14-36.pdf

https://s3.amazonaws.com/omextruth/oceanica/northwest-semarnat-english-sep4.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/9/4/499650-14098810605757475-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.jpg
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 5/23


The undersigned members of the Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the
Northwest Region, based on Articles 157 and 159 of the General Law of Ecological
Equilibrium and Environmental Protection and the agreement by which the National
Advisory Council was created, 6 32 Regional Advisory Boards and Advisory Councils for
Sustainable Development Core(published in the Official Journal of the Federation on
September 29, 2011), issued in our capacity as advisors SEMARNAT, the following
recommendation in accordance with the following:


Background


(Brief description of the problem, situation, history or aspects of the environment within which the


recommendation is generated)


A group of investors have been associated in phosphate mining program called "Ocean


Explorations, S. de RL de CV" that is operating in the Bay of San Juanico, Comundú Township, BCS


The development of this project involves the use dredging ship that will remove up to 3 meters of the


seabed in an area of 268,328 hectares, process phosphate and pour the rest back into the ocean.


P


i


c


t


u


r


e


1


Figure 1 Map showing where the Company operates in Comundú, BCS


The environmental and economic consequences are catastrophic and dredging offshore phosphate


has never been done anywhere in the world. If this is allowed, this would be a very lucrative


experiment to many foreign companies. If the experiment fails, it can become an environmental


disaster, completely destroying the ecosystem and in turn affect tourism, the fishing industry and the


community.
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 6/23


The risk of becoming an environmental atrocity. The phosphate is associated with heavy metals


including cadmium, lead, chromium, nickel, manganese; equally with radioactive material such as


uranium which can cause cancer. The dredging is very dangerous metals may leak into the


water.Heavy metals, nitrates, bacteria, and toxins sulfides could not just fish, also whales, turtles,


birds, shellfish and humans. 2 It is estimated that greenhouse gases can reach over 50m in height


and spread in a radius of over 80 km. This could destroy the reefs, corals and other marine species


that feed by filtration and seafood.


Worse, there is evidence that these contaminants could create anoxic conditions, removing oxygen


from the water. A project in Namibia evidenced "mass mortality" of fish and marine life as a result of


these conditions. Heavy metals, overproduction of phytoplankton, the spread of contaminated


sediments, anoxic conditions, sulfur eruptions, altered benthic (macro to micro) could be


catastrophic for the local ecosystem conditions and negatively impact migration patterns and


reproduction of marine life, devastating the local fishing and tourism.


Dredging phosphate has only been tried in two other places: New Zealand and Namibia. In both


countries the strong opposition from the fishing industry and environmental groups, among others,


managed to stop the projects. However, for some inexplicable reason this project San Juanico


"Oceanic" has taken place without the local or environmental participation. Was this project kept


secret from the local community and the Mexicans?


Any chemical process creates the risk of spills of industrial waste which would bring irreversible


consequences for sensitive ecosystems. In similar projects have raised processing phosphate in


marine installations. This would entail no jobs for the local community.


Typical work also involves mining exploration underground seismic test explosives that can severely


disrupt marine life destroying organic tissue, damaging reproductive organs, and potentially altering


the distribution patterns of fish. Mining is not a renewable industry, while tourism, whale watching,


diving and fishing are sustainable forms of employment for present and future generations.


The resulting noise constant dredging, testing and drilling in the area have never been evaluated


and real consequences for marine mammals remembering that this region of the Pacific is a


biological corridor and migration of different species of cetaceans such as the gray whale are


unknown, humpback, blue and different from other species of dolphins, species sensitive to noise


and all under some protected species status in NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2013, so the impact of this


undersea mining is cause untold damage to the biodiversity in a country that has always


distinguished the protection and conservation of marine mammals worldwide.
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 7/23


Besides the damage to tourism and fisheries sector has not been evaluated, the lagoons of San


Ignacio, Magdalena Bay, get a lot of tourists from December to April when the season watching the


gray whale. Fishermen in the area exporting different mollusks same as stored in different organs


heavy metals are suspended in the marine ecosystem and that this type of marine pollution activities


both medium and agencies and therefore humans would incalculable damage.


P


i


c


t


u


r


e


5


Figure 2 Map of the places where "Ocean Explorations, S. de RL de CV" operates to carry out


mining activities, which is drawn to Baja California Sur.


Many countries have recognized the serious risks of deep sea mining banning it entirely. Be careful


when foreign companies are allowed to make huge profits in the short term in exchange for the


permanent destruction of the ecosystem and our community. Not found no independent basis to


prove that this project or the current exploration program is safe to "Oceanica" it never should have


been allowed to get here online or scientific evidence. Moreover, any proposal for mineral


exploration in the sea must undergo evaluation by independent organizations to find clear evidence


that the proposal is environmentally safe. Australia, Namibia and other regions have stopped all


mining project offshore Mexico must stop "Ocean Explorations, S. de RL de CV" before it is too late.
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 8/23


It should also be noted that the terrestrial part in the states of Sonora and Sinaloa has reported the


presence of prospectors, which are known as potential miners, prospectors or small-scale mining,


which extract minerals in a way illegal without an environmental impact, causing unimaginable


impacts on the environment.


Recitals


(Description of reasoning, aspects of regulatory policy, strategies and actions of the three levels of


government that support the issuance of the recommendation)


In 1972, Mexico was the first country to create a sanctuary for whales to declare Hare Eye Lagoon in


Baja California Sur, sanctuary for gray whales. Thirty years later he was again placed at the forefront


of whale conservation to declare a national shrine to the world's largest whales.


With this decree, Mexico is committed to safeguarding the refuge area, in order to maintain the


environmental conditions necessary to ensure the biological functions of whales, such as


reproduction, birth, breeding, growing, learning, migration and feeding. Now is the responsibility of all


Mexicans monitor and enforce such conditions are met


Fishermen harbor craft Chale observed the "Ocean Explorations, S. de RL de CV" 80 miles from the


coast, as mentioned that was operating from December 2012 to March 2013 People of the company


contacted them in a meeting in the city of Constitution to tell them that they would be operating.


In Magdalena Bay, between February and March 2013, some fishermen found dead marine


mammals (seals and dolphins), and reported to PROFEPA, but no studies of the death of these


organisms in cetaceans themselves consist of analyzes were the inner ear to see if they die by


seismic surveys.


Underwater mining should be a passive monitoring to identify marine mammals in the area and also


make sure its not impact any agency seismic surveys.


Oceanic Exploration Company, S. de RL de CV, is registered in the Public Registry of Property and


Commerce of the Federal District in Mexico, where requested mining concessions for exploration


and exploitation of all kinds of minerals and substances regulated by Law Minera.


The data in the record to permit commercial folio enrolled in the Public Registry of Property and


Commerce of the Federal District in Mexico, are:


Registration Date: 13/03/2012


Ssue control: 96807
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 9/23


An environmental impact for the project, which is operating is not carried out.


All cetacean species living in Mexico are under some risk in NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010. Also, you


are protected by CITES, and the blue whale has a program of action for the conservation of the


species.


The emerging threat of underwater mining is a warning about the need to protect the oceans alert


Richard Page, Greenpeace oceans specialist.


The objectives, strategies and lines of action PROMATNAT 2013-2018, in which the


recommendation is based, are:


GOAL 4: Retrieve functionality watersheds and landscapes through conservation, restoration and


use sustainably the natural heritage.


Strategy 4.4: To protect the biodiversity of the pa s t, with emphasis on the conservation é


ion species at risk.


L i n line of action or 4.48: Strengthening conservation program ion species at risk within and


outside ANP.


Strategy 4.7: Address and leverage the International Agenda aimed at protecting,


conserving and sustainably exploit ecosystems, their biodiversity and ecosystem services.


Line of action L i o n:


Promote the protection of marine and coastal ecosystems for the use of natural resources in


international forums.


GOAL 5: Stop and reverse the loss of natural capital and pollution of water, air and soil.


Strategy 5.5: To help improve the ion protection of the environment and natural resources in


mining and the oil industry.


L i n line of action or 5.53: Develop and update policy instruments and building to prevent


and manage waste integrally miner t ae oil industry.


L i n line of action or 5.54: Develop and update policy and development tools to strengthen


the sustainability of the mining and oil industry.


The objectives, strategies and lines of action PROMARNAT 2013-2018, in which the


recommendation is based, are as follows: GOAL 4: Recover the functionality of watersheds and


landscapes through conservation, restoration and use sustainably the natural heritage. Strategy 4.4:
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 10/23


To protect the biodiversity of the country, with emphasis on the conservation of endangered species.


Action Line 4.48: Strengthen the conservation program of endangered species in and out of ANP.


Strategy 4.7: Address and leverage the International Agenda aimed at protecting, conserving and


sustainably exploit ecosystems, their biodiversity and ecosystem services. Line of Action: Promote


the protection of marine and coastal ecosystems for the use of natural resources in international


forums.


Therefore, (as) members Advisory Council for Sustainable Development of the Northwest
Region, issued the following:


Recommendation


(Write in, clear, understandable and practical text of recommendation).


SEMARNAT is recommended to revise, implement and regulate all onshore and offshore North West


mining, demanding that the environmental impact statement is requested from the stage of


exploration to exploitation. This is based on the fact that the scans are unavoidable environmental


impacts in the system, as previously discussed in the preamble and background to this


recommendation, and now to be able to carry out scans only has to meet the preventive report, so


that legal channels are insufficient.


This recommendation was written by:


Technical Committee or Working Group: Technical Committee of the Green Agenda Region


Northwest.


Coordinator of the Technical Committee


or Working Group:


Dr. Rafael Rodriguez Riosmena.


Directors members: Dr. Rafael Rodriguez Riosmena, Dra. Marcín Rocio


Medina, Ing. Bertha Lucía Gómez González, TLC. Carlos


Eliseo Ornelas Roan.


Done in the City of Mexico, home of the V Ordinary Session of the Consultative Council
for Sustainable Development of the Northwest Region, July 11, 2014
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 11/23


Website: http://consejos.semarnat.gob.mx/ E-mail:
consejos.consultivos@semarnat.gob.mx


IS OMEX Dumping their Chatham Rock Phosphate Stock?


Last October, OMEX highlighted their 3 ventures in undersea mining and the value for
shareholders:


OMEX Investor Presentation October 2013


In the last 10 months since this investor presentation, Neptune has been written down
-94% in value and appears to be insolvent and has ceased operations. Chatham Rock is
the NZ operation that is publicly traded. Is OMEX dumping their stock in the last two
weeks in a desperate grab for cash?



http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&prev=_t&sl=es&tl=en&u=http://consejos.semarnat.gob.mx/

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2422845-odysseys-sec-10q-out-of-cash-in-weeks-neptune-minerals-declines-minus-94-percent

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/9/5/499650-1409956677488578-Meson-Capital-Partners_origin.png
5/21/2018 Oceanica EIA Leaks In Mexico: Official Opposition Begins - Odyssey Marine Exploration, Inc. (NASDAQ:OMEX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2476585-oceanica-eia-leaks-in-mexico-official-opposition-begins 12/23


