Oil Doubles, But BPT Should Still Get Cut In Half
Apr. 27, 2016 9:39 AM ET36 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


BPT’s price has collapsed despite an extraordinary rally in the price of oil.


We believe that this anomaly is due to the market’s recent recognition that there is a
clear line of sight to BPT’s last dividends.


As this becomes more broadly understood, we believe that current yield will become
an increasingly irrelevant valuation tool in favor of the net present value of the
remaining cash flows.


On this measure, BPT remains significantly overvalued with its current price
representing more than twice its fair value.


We expect BPT’s significant underperformance to continue until the shift in PBT’s
valuation paradigm is complete.


BP Prudhoe Bay Royalty Trust's (NYSE:BPT) price has collapsed since a bearish investor
issued a press release highlighting disclosures from the Trust's 2015 Form 10-K and
following our prior article regarding the Trust. In that article, we provided a description of
the Trust, its contractually-escalating cost profile and the resulting expected cash flows to
the Trust based on the price of oil. Our conclusion was that the fair value of BPT at that
time was over 70% below its trading price.


In this article, we reexamine these expected cash flows in the context of oil's extraordinary
rally from its low on February 11 th to its current high. We also provide some context for
considering future production levels given the news that BP has reduced the number of
rigs that it is operating in Prudhoe Bay to 2 from 5. Finally, this article is a response to a
report in another forum that suggests that BPT is a bet on the oil price recovering (link).
While true, we felt it would be useful to assess just how much of a recovery is required to
justify a purchase at BPT's current price.


Oil Price Rally



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BPT

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/due-to-the-recent-fall-in-oil-prices-trustee-of-bp-prudhoe-bay-royalty-trust-bpt-attributes-no-proved-reserves-to-the-bp-prudhoe-bay-trust-past-2020-300233119.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3958213-bpt-get-cut-halinklf

http://af.reuters.com/article/energyOilNews/idAFL1N16H1B4

http://www.fool.com/investing/general/2016/04/07/read-this-before-you-buy-bp-prudhoe-bay-royalty-tr.aspx
On February 11 th, the spot price for West Texas Intermediate crude oil (NYSE:WTI)
closed at $26.21 a price not seen since 2003. It subsequently rallied approximately 68% to
over $44 as of April 26, 2016. Despite this rally, BBT has fallen over 40% during this
period. Given this incredible underperformance, it would be tempting to believe that BPT is
now undervalued. This however is the wrong conclusion as our analysis shows that BPT's
underperformance is not the result of an attractive valuation anomaly - rather we believe it
is the result of the market coming to recognize that the end is approaching for BPT.


Oil Price Scenarios


The graph below shows the forward curve for WTI as of its February 11 th low point and
the current high on April 26 th. We have also included the SEC reference price of $50.28
which readers of our first article will recognize as the basis for the Trust's publicly
disclosed PV-10 value. We will use these three price scenarios to examine how the fair
value of BPT changes with differing oil price expectations.
Contractual Costs


As we did in our first article, we examine the expected quarterly per barrel costs that are
used to calculate the cash flows owed to the Trust. Since the detail of how these
contractual cash flows are determined was presented in our first article, we will not repeat
it here. We will however remind readers that only two assumptions need to be made. The
first is the future rate of inflation associated with the costs charged to the Trust - which we
have again assumed to be zero. The second relates to the production taxes which are
based on the price of WTI. For the charts below, we have depicted the taxes based on the
April 26 th forward price (In our NPV analysts we used the appropriate production tax
calculation for each scenario).
As a reminder, the contracted costs are not related to the actual costs incurred at Prudhoe
Bay. Rather, they are driven by a schedule that was agreed at the time that the Trust was
created. They begin to escalate at a rapid pace beginning in 2018 with these increases
continuing until the termination of the Trust. The actual cost increase will be greater than
depicted above should the actual rate of inflation (based on the CPI) be greater than our
assumption of zero.


Per Barrel Cash Flows


In the chart below, we depict the per barrel cash flows earned by the Trust in each of our
price scenarios. These values are represented by the difference between the price of WTI
in each scenario vs the associated cost for each period.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/4/26/959452-14617149633181546_origin.jpg
As shown, the per barrel royalty has improved significantly since the February low of the
oil market and, based on the current forward curve, it appears that royalty payments may
persist until 2021 rather than 2020. However, it is worth noting that even with the historic
rally in the price of oil, the current forward curve is still (on average) below the SEC price
for the relevant time period.


Implied Value


To determine the value of BTU's units, we multiply the per barrel royalty by the expected
volume of production for each period. We use a 10% discount rate which is consistent with
the rate used by the SEC and is a yield that we believe to be fair for the risks associated
with the Trust's cash flows. With regard to expected production, at this point in our
analysis we have assumed a 1.5% annual decline while considering the seasonality of
production at Prudhoe Bay. In accordance with the Trust's royalty agreement, we cap
volumes for each period at 90,000 barrels per day.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2016/4/26/959452-14617150048651817_origin.jpg
Based on these assumptions and the assumption that the Trust's future administrative
expenses will be consistent with those of the past we calculate the NPV of the expected
cash flows of the Trust to be as follows for each of the scenario's considered:


As shown in this chart, we have also calculated the implied return of the units based on
their closing price as of April 26, 2016. Our conclusion at this point in our analysis is that,
while the NPV of the Trust has increased by $5.76 since the recent low of the oil market,
the units are trading at nearly twice their fair value.


Production


We have based our work thus far on the assumption that the production decline rate
would be quite benign for Prudhoe Bay. However with BP's decision to reduce the working
rig count from 5 rigs to 2, we believe that it is worthwhile to consider other scenarios. To
do so we looked to the data for the Alyeska Pipeline which transports oil produced in
Prudhoe Bay and other fields in the Alaska North Slope. This data is available on the
pipeline's website and in the graph below we have depicted the average annual volumes
since production peaked in the late 1980s.



http://www.alyeska-pipe.com/TAPS/PipelineOperations/Throughput
The decline rate for the past 10 years has averaged approximately 5.5%. It is worth noting
that 2015's average volume of 508 MBbl per day is now at a level which presents real
challenges for the pipeline as described on the operator's website. While we have not
contemplated what a permanent or temporary loss of the pipeline would mean to the
Trust, we have looked at the value of the units should the announced reduction in drilling
cause Prudhoe Bay production to decline at the increased rate of 5%.


As expected, the quicker decline in production further reduces the fair value of the units
with the NPV based on the current forward curve dropping from $8.36 to $7.77 per unit or
less than half of the current price of the units.



http://www.alyeska-pipe.com/TAPS/PipelineOperations/LowFlowOperations
Implied Oil Price


In our final analysis for this article, we determined what oil price was required to justify
BPT's current price of $16.18. We continued to assume that inflation would be zero while
assuming that production would decline at 5% as discussed above. We then used
increasingly higher fixed price assumptions for WTI (beginning as of April 1, 2016 and
continuing in perpetuity) until the NPV of BPT's cash flows matched the current unit price.
As shown below, justifying BPT's current trading price requires a WTI price of nearly $60.
Said differently, WTI, having rallied almost $18 from its low, would need to rally nearly $16
more for the current price of BPT to be warranted.


Conclusion


As we stated in our first article, we believe that BPT is neither a good source of income
nor is it an attractive way to express a bullish view on oil. For investors seeking income,
buying a royalty trust with a limited remaining life is dangerous game which leaves
investors who are slow to leave the party holding the bag (Whiting USA Trust I (WHXT)
provides a clear example of how such things end).
For investors seeking to express a bullish view on oil, we ask why anyone would do so
with a security that is already implying and immediate and permanent increase in the price
of oil to nearly $60. If one is confident that the price of oil will quickly rise to that level, we
believe that there are far more attractive and lucrative ways to express that view.


Disclosure: I am/we are short BPT. I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is mentioned in this article.


