© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com


Citron Presents the Red Flag Why the 
SEC should investigate Village Farms


Price Target of $1
1
In 2017, Village Farms was a failed tomato farmer on the brink of bankruptcy that found a way to revitalize its stock price with


a “joint venture” with Emerald Health Therapeutics, Pure Sunfarms, to enter the cannabis growing market.  This along with a 


paid stock promotion has resulted in a vertical move in the stock.  


The reality of this “joint venture” is Village Farms has moved to the dark side by partnering with shady stock promoters that


have a track record of failed businesses and JV’s while insiders at both Village Farms and Emerald Health have dumped stock.


This JV should be in the crosshairs of the SEC due to its numerous red flags highlighted by the SEC regarding investment 


schemes involving marijuana-related companies.  


https://www.sec.gov/oiea/investor-alerts-and-bulletins/ia_marijuana


While we believe the whole cannabis space has become overextended, we acknowledge that there are real players in the 


business who might have expensive stocks versus pretenders whose primary objective is to separate investors from their 


money as warned by the SEC.  We put Village Farms in the category of pretenders.  


With a rapidly growing universe of cannabis stocks to invest in this global trend, why would investors choose to give their 


capital to a company that only owns 50% of a farming entity alongside an operator with a long history of stock promotion and 


failures.  At the same $700 million enterprise value, you can invest in a much higher quality operator like CannTrust.  Unlike 
the Canadian listed US multi state operators or vertically integrated players, Village Farms is at best a 
farmer with a track record of failure.


Village Farms


2



https://www.sec.gov/oiea/investor-alerts-and-bulletins/ia_marijuana
The Village Farms JV that investors are 
excited about is Pure Sunfarms.


The board of directors at this highly 
touted JV should immediately alarm the 
SEC.  


Avtar Dhillon is an infamous penny stock 
promoter.


Avtar’s nephew, Punit Dhillion, and Jim 
Heppell are close associates of Avtar 
that worked with him at his other stock 
promotion schemes including Cardiome
Pharma, Inovio Pharmaceuticals, 
Sophiris Bio, Protox Therapeutics, 
Nemus Bioscience, OncoSec Medical, 
etc.


Pure Sunfarms


3
We’ve Seen This Movie Before
The historical performance of stocks that Avtar Dhillon has been involved with speaks for itself.


Avtar Dhillon is a board member at Vitality Biopharma, which the SEC halted only 5 months ago citing potential stock manipulation.  Shortly before, 
Vitality Biopharma appeared in a regulatory action against a UK man named Roger Knox who ran an offshore operation that allowed insiders to secretly 
dump stock in the midst of touting campaigns.


Avtar Dhillon and nephew Punit Dhillon were Chairman and CEO of OncoSec Medical, a stock that went public via a reverse merger with minimal assets.  
In an SEC complaint from 2 years ago targeting stock promotion firm, Lidingo, regulators described frequent communications between Punit and 
Lidingo. Paid stock promotion was clearly part of OncoSec Medical’s strategy to temporarily boost the share price as the SEC cited emails from Punit, 
suggesting articles to Lidingo that were later created and published under fake author names.  As a result, Punit resigned as CEO.  


https://www.thestreet.com/story/14082476/1/for-these-small-cap-biotech-ceos-stock-promotion-not-drug-development-was-priority-no-1.html


4



https://www.thestreet.com/story/14082476/1/for-these-small-cap-biotech-ceos-stock-promotion-not-drug-development-was-priority-no-1.html
Before Village Farms, Emerald Health touted a JV with Abattis
Bioceuticals…  Look at How That Turned Out


5


https://www.cannabisfn.com/northern-vine-labs-combines-best-abattis-emerald-health/



https://www.cannabisfn.com/northern-vine-labs-combines-best-abattis-emerald-health/
Let’s Not Forget Their International Partnership with Citron 
Exposed Scam: Namaste Technologies


6


https://smallcappower.com/news/market-news/emerald-health-namaste-stock-news/



https://smallcappower.com/news/market-news/emerald-health-namaste-stock-news/
Look at how their highly touted JV with DMG Blockchain turned out.


https://www.greenmarketreport.com/emerald-health-dmg-blockchain-solutions-develop-blockchain-platform/


And What Would a Good Stock Promotion Be Without a 
Blockchain JV


7



https://www.greenmarketreport.com/emerald-health-dmg-blockchain-solutions-develop-blockchain-platform/
There’s been a mass exodus of senior 
executives from Emerald Health.  


Obviously, senior management and board 
members did not like what’s going on at the 
company.


Management Departures


8
Village Using Same Stock Promoters as IGC and Namaste, both 
Citron exposed stocks down 80% from peak


9
When updating the risk factors section of the 2018 MD&A, Village Farms added 24 additional new risk factors related 
to the JV with Emerald!  


Two new risk factors that stood out to Citron were: 


“Liability of Illegal Activities by Employees, Contractors or Consultants”.  


“The Joint Venture is exposed to the risk that its employees, independent contractors, consultants, service providers 
and licensors may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activity”


If you disclose fraud does it make committing fraud ok?


Citron has identified numerous fraudulent claims including unobtainable financial projections which has become a 
warning sign to investors as noted by the SEC.


Illegally, management has been rampantly selling stock after making these promotional statements.  


Fraud Added to Village Farms JV Risk Factors


10
In addition to the Emerald JV, Village 
Farms announced last month a “joint 
venture” with Nature Crisp calling them 
“a pioneer in hemp cultivation”, “a new 
powerhouse in hemp cultivation”, and 
“a leading authority on hemp 
cultivation” while noting that the 
partnership will give Village Farms “a 
tremendous advantage” in supplying 
“hemp-derived CBD products to big box 
and grocery retailers in the US”.   


In reality, Nature Crisp has minimal 
hemp experience and is nothing more 
than a small time farmer in Georgia that 
had to close its failed turf grass 
business.


It Takes a Village to Pump a Stock


11
While Village Farms management enlisted 3rd tier Canadian brokerage firms to complete bought deals, management 
was actively selling stock into these bought deals.


Despite raising over USD $50 million through bought deals on cannabis hype, Village Farms only has less than USD $12 
million of cash on the balance sheet as they subsidize a money losing business while management has found a way to 
siphon money out of the company.


Namaste Déjà Vu at Village


12
Citron has exposed more stock fraud in 18 years than any non-governmental agency.


Village Farms spent years as a sleepy Canadian stock.  Once they got approved for listing on the Nasdaq their volumes 
and share price increased exponentially.  YET, the problem is once you choose to list in the US you are subject SEC laws 
and regulations.   Especially in the Cannabis space the SEC does care about: financial projections, beneficial ownerships, 
and stock promotions. You live by the sword you die by the sword.


It is the opinion of Citron that Village Farms is nothing more than a stock promotion.  


This company has used investors’ enthusiasm for cannabis to create shady joint ventures with unrealistic projections to 
boost their stock price while hoping that a few hidden disclosures in their filings will shield them from all SEC 
enforcement.  


This is the exact type of promotion that the SEC has consistently warned investors about.  


We expect that when investors look past the paid stock promotions…  the stock will quickly trade back to $1 if it doesn’t 
get halted before that.


Conclusion


13
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) or 
Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital are 
referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” Each 
report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for 
informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports or 
any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and Citron 
Capital is an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of 
Business Oversight. The reports are the property of the applicable Citron Entity that 
published that report. The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are 
solely attributable to the applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any 
Citron Related Person (defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published 
the report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 
following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report is 
at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 
harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 
members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron Related 
Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) attributable to 
any information in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and 
due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities of the 
issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments 
that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You 
represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the 
information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron report. You further agree 
that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials made 
available by Citron to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by 
these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports 
or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these 
Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the contents of Citron reports or 
other materials as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to 
these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron Related 


Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, 
and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors and/or their 
clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more of the 
securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to 
one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant gains in the 
event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or appreciate. Citron 
Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons may continue to transact 
in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period after an initial report on a 
Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, or neutral at any time 
hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as stated in the Citron 
research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will update any report or 
information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Citron Related 
Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 
Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are 
offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron 
research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital is 
an exempt reporting adviser filed with the California Department of Business 
Oversight and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Citron 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment 
adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and 
agree that Citron Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with 
you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires 
knowledge of your financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and 
Citron Capital has no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of the 
applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 
the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the 
applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been obtained 
from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be accurate and 
reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or 
who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to 
the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such information is presented 
“as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. With respect to 


their respective research reports, Citron Research and Citron Capital makes no 
representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of 
any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. 
Further, any research report contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. 
All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Citron does not 
undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis 
and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 
liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, indirect, 
punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or 
in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron report. This 
limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of 
Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You accept all risks 
in relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and you 
therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the express 
prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained Citron 
research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may not read 
such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree that any 
dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related to this 
report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. The failure of 
Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or provision of 
these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree 
that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these Terms of Use. If 
any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect 
to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other 
provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to 
this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any 
statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to 
Citron report or related material must be filed within one (1) year after the 
occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or 
such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


Cautious Investing to All


14
