© Copyright 2019 | Citron Research | www.citronresearch.com | All Inquiries – info@citronresearch.com 1


The Poster Child for Institutionalized
Academic Cheating 
Immediate Price Target of $25
The 2019 college admission scandal has shined a new light on 
academic integrity in the United States.  What was long 
considered to be socially acceptable or even legal is now 
coming into question as media and lawmakers are questioning 
the status quo in our educational system. 


Beyond Rick Singer and his manipulation of admissions, the 
conversation of institutionalized cheating cannot occur without 
first mentioning Chegg.


Chegg, a $4 bil company that has made a business off selling 
answers to homework and selling a service that allows students 
to submit plagiarized work as original is undermining the 
educational system and will soon be brought to the forefront of 
media attention.


In this report, Citron will explain how the “it’s never a problem 
until it’s a problem” moment has hit Chegg as now cheating 
does make a difference.  


Institutionalized Cheating is No Longer OK


2
According to Dr. Donald McCabe and the International Center for Academic Integrity, surveys of over 70,000 high 
school students at over 24 high schools in the US revealed that 95% said they participated in some form of 
cheating, whether it was on a test, plagiarism or copying homework.


Chegg began as the Netflix for college textbooks but as the textbook market went online the company has pivoted 
into what has become the worst secret amongst high school and college campuses.  


For lack of a better term, Chegg’s business model is now CaaS (i.e., Cheating as a Service). 


It has become so obvious that even a USC professor referred to Chegg as “a thinly-veiled cheating service.”
https://www.reddit.com/r/USC/comments/9ejlxo/posting_hw_question_on_chegg_study/?st=jthz9w42&sh=e1b0a
eb2


Reddit boards are filled with students and teachers discussing the obvious use of Chegg as a means for cheating in 
homework and original essay writing.


If you don’t believe the reddit boards and don’t want to believe the words of a short seller then how about 
believing the words of their own partner.


Cheating Has Become an Educational Addiction and Chegg is the Pusher


3



https://www.reddit.com/r/USC/comments/9ejlxo/posting_hw_question_on_chegg_study/?st=jthz9w42&sh=e1b0aeb2
In February 2019, Chegg signed a partnership with Purdue University where Purdue’s Online Writing lab will help power 
the writing tools produced by Chegg in exchange for students having access to those Chegg tools.
https://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2019/Q1/the-purdue-university-online-writing-lab-and-chegg-partner-
to-make-world-class-writing-education-tools-more-accessible.html


Immediately after the partnership was announced, Professor of Economics Stephen Martin expressed the concerns of 
faculty by stating the following:  "What's problematic is Purdue University lending it's good name and reputation to a 
company whose business plan apparently involves helping students cheat.”
https://www.wlfi.com/content/news/Some-Purdue-faculty-concerned-about-university-partnership-with-Chegg-
506024201.html


Professor of Mathematics Ralph Kaufmann echoed this concern by stating that Chegg is a company with “two faces”…  
while Chegg claims to help students do their homework, students on Twitter are very clear that they use the site to do 
their homework for them.


The Purdue partnership brought criticism from other academics as well.  Susan Schorn, writing program coordinator in 
the school of undergraduate studies at the University of Texas at Austin, stated:  “I think it’s inevitable that Purdue 
OWL’s reputation will suffer from this association...  I understand their desire to bring in a little cash, but I wish they had 
chosen a partner that didn’t come with the liabilities a platform like Chegg will inevitably have.”
https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2019/03/12/purdue-professors-criticize-writing-partnership-chegg


Purdue University – Stating the Obvious 


4



https://www.purdue.edu/newsroom/releases/2019/Q1/the-purdue-university-online-writing-lab-and-chegg-partner-to-make-world-class-writing-education-tools-more-accessible.html

https://www.wlfi.com/content/news/Some-Purdue-faculty-concerned-about-university-partnership-with-Chegg-506024201.html

https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2019/03/12/purdue-professors-criticize-writing-partnership-chegg
Chegg Appears to be Operating Illegally


5


What we learned the past two weeks is that academic cheating 
is not only immoral but it’s also illegal.


Based on our analysis, it appears that Chegg is operating 
illegally in 17 states. 


Distributing any post-secondary assignment for a profit with 
reasonable knowledge that it will be submitted by another 
person for academic credit is a CRIME in many US states.


Chegg believes they are exempt from this law because of their 
terms of service and their honor code.  That is the equivalent 
of telling Waze you’re the passenger when getting directions.


As soon as politicians and media get over the Rick Singer 
scandal, Chegg should not be far behind.
The business of institutionalized cheating has become so bad that 
it has created a business to combat institutionalized cheating.  
Advance Publications this month bought Turnitin, which is a 
software developer that uses AI to scan students’ writing and 
code assignments to check for plagiarism.  This is software used 
by university and high school teachers to specifically combat 
Chegg.


"[Turnitin] aims to be a 'conversation starter,' and it emphasizes 
the need...  of 'a larger teaching moment around the importance 
of original writing, proper citation, and academic integrity.’” –
National Post


https://nationalpost.com/entertainment/books/a-software-
program-called-turnitin-is-making-life-exceedingly-difficult-for-
student-plagiarists


Turnitin is enough to stunt Chegg’s growth and the Chegg user 
base acknowledges the danger of Turnitin.  


Turnitin - Chegg Kryptonite


6



https://nationalpost.com/entertainment/books/a-software-program-called-turnitin-is-making-life-exceedingly-difficult-for-student-plagiarists
Turnitin is based on academic 
integrity and Chegg has 
created forums to attempt to 
circumvent Turnitin, proving 
that Chegg is trying to help 
users continue 
institutionalized cheating.


Chegg Tries to Help Students Continue Cheating


7
Chegg Tries to Help Students Continue Cheating


8
9


Chegg Tries to Help Students Continue Cheating
Why is this CaaS Company Trading at a Peak Multiple??


10


Despite the forces of Turnitin, legal risks, and social risks associated with 
institutionalized cheating, Chegg is trading at a peak EV/Sales multiple of 11x and at a 
massive premium to best in class SaaS operator Salesforce, which only trades at 7x-8x.
It appears as if insiders are acknowledging the risks and headwinds of the CaaS business model as insider selling is 
at a peak for all company insiders including the CEO who made his largest sale on record just a few days ago.


Insider Selling


11
Short Interest At Lows


12


Short sellers have known about the dangers of Chegg but have been covering over the past 2 years as it seemed 
that no one was going to care about academic cheating but now things have changed.
This is Not the 1st Time Citron Has Commented on Abuses in the Educational System


13


10 years ago, Citron warned about future regulation in the for-profit education space, in a series of reports on 
Apollo Group when the stock was trading around $80. Subsequently, the government announced proposed 
regulatory changes regarding marketing and recruiting expenses.  The company was eventually acquired for $10 per 
share.
There is an obvious disclaimer in Chegg’s terms of service that make this company worth $0.  Not to mention this 
company has serious risk of being sued by the Attorney General.


If Chegg has their “Swiss bank account moment” and has to disclose all their clients to their respective schools the 
business model falls apart and the stock goes to $0.


This is a risk stated in their “honor code”


“Furthermore, you should be aware that in the event your institution contacts Chegg as part of an investigation into 
academic integrity, Chegg is authorized under our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy to cooperate fully in that 
investigation and we commonly do.  This can include providing information to your institution about your user 
profile, account, site usage activity, and interactions with Chegg Tutors.”


https://www.chegg.com/tutors/honor-code/


Best Case Scenario for Chegg Valuation- Ignoring Risk


We will take the leader in CaaS and put them in-line with the leader in SaaS.  If we optimistically assume that Chegg 
deserves to trade in-line with Salesforce at an EV/Sales multiple of 7x, this implies a price target of $25. 


What is Chegg Worth?


14



https://www.chegg.com/tutors/honor-code/
These reports have been prepared by either Citron Research (“Citron Research”) 
or Citron Capital, LLC (“Citron Capital”). Citron Research and Citron Capital 
are referred to collectively as “Citron” and each individually as a “Citron Entity.” 
Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report. All reports are for 
informational purposes only. Under no circumstances should any of these reports 
or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments.


Citron Research produces research reports on publicly traded securities, and 
Citron Capital is an investment adviser registered with the SEC. The reports are 
the property of the applicable Citron Entity that published that report. The 
opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the 
applicable Citron Entity and are not attributable to any Citron Related Person 
(defined below) (other than the Citron Entity that published the report).


By downloading, accessing, or viewing any research report, you agree to the 
following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research presented in any report 
is at your own risk. You (or any person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold 
harmless Citron Research, Citron Capital and each of their affiliates and related 
parties, including, but not limited to any principals, officers, directors, employees, 
members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Citron 
Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses (including trading losses) 
attributable to any information in a research report. You further agree to do your 
own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect 
to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other 
financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any securities issued by 
the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication 
to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion presented in any Citron 
report. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and 
other materials made available by Citron to any other person unless that person 
has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive 
the contents of Citron reports or other materials on your own behalf, you agree to 
and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If you access, download or receive the 
contents of Citron reports or other materials as an agent for any other person, you 
are binding your principal to these same Terms of Use.


You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Citron report, Citron 


Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, 
employees, and/or consultants), Citron Related Persons clients and/or investors 
and/or their clients and/or investors have a position (long or short) in one or more 
of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 
related to one or more of these securities), and therefore may realize significant 
gains in the event that the prices of a Covered Issuer’s securities decline or 
appreciate. Citron Research, Citron Capital and/or the Citron Related Persons 
may continue to transact in Covered Issuers’ securities for an indefinite period 
after an initial report on a Covered Issuer, and such position(s) may be long, short, 
or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position(s) and views as 
stated in the Citron research. Neither Citron Research nor Citron Capital will 
update any report or information to reflect changes in positions that may be held by 
a Citron Related Person.


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither 
Citron Research nor any Citron Related Person (including Citron Capital) are 
offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through any Citron 
research reports. Citron Research is affiliated with Citron Capital. Citron Capital 
is an investment adviser registered with the SEC. Citron Capital does not render 
investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship 
with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Citron 
Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not 
owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your 
financial situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Citron Capital 
has no such knowledge about you.


The research and reports made available by Citron reflect express the opinion of 
the applicable Citron Entity as of the time of the report only. Reports are based on 
generally available information, field research, inferences and deductions through 
the applicable Citron Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of 
the applicable Citron Entity’s ability and belief, all information contained herein is 
accurate and reliable, is not material non-public information, and has been 
obtained from public sources that the applicable Citron Entity believe to be 
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the 
Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality 
or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or indirectly). However, such 
information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or 


implied. With respect to their respective research reports, Citron Research and 
Citron Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, 
timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any research report contains a very large 
measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change 
without notice, and Citron does not undertake to update or supplement any reports 
or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.


In no event shall Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons be 
liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 
indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising 
out of or in any way connected with any information presented in any Citron 
report. This limitation of liability applies regardless of any negligence or gross 
negligence of Citron Research, Citron Capital or any Citron Related Persons. You 
accept all risks in relying on the information presented in any report.


You agree that the information in any Citron research report is copyrighted, and 
you therefore agree not to distribute this information in any manner without the 
express prior written consent of the applicable Citron Entity. If you have obtained 
Citron research reports in any manner other than as provided by Citron, you may 
not read such research without agreeing to these Terms of Use. You further agree 
that any dispute between you and Citron and their affiliates arising from or related 
to this report or viewing the material presented herein shall be governed by the 
laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. 
The failure of Citron Research or Citron Capital to exercise or enforce any right or 
provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or 
provision. You agree that each Citron Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to 
these Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of 
competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court 
should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision 
and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and 
effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree 
that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action 
arising out of or related to Citron report or related material must be filed within 
one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or 
cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred.


Cautious Investing to All


15
