EXAS and the MDX transaction May 23, 2017 Page 1 of 5 
 





May 23, 2017 
 


DO NOT BELIEVE CITRON RESEARCH! 
 


To Reveal the True Value of Exact Sciences 
(NASDAQ:EXAS) Listen to the Respected Company that is 


the ”Science” behind Exact Sciences. 
 


Short Term Target Reaffirmed at $20…  Long Term Looks Dire. 
 


Needless to say, the past week has been a complete “shit show” for Exact 
Sciences.   
 


The CEO has been on Television fighting with short sellers and all of the 
analysts have posted updated research that mimics one another like Wall 
Street puppets. 
 


Can anyone add some common sense to the Exact Sciences story?  With the 
recent 50% move in the stock who can an investor rely on?  Read on for 
undisputed data points. 
 


The Disclosure that Exact Sciences Didn't Want Anyone to 
Analyze!! 





Citron is surprised that neither investors nor analysts properly analyzed the 
important disclosure from Exact on April 27


th
.  We have to admit, until an 


astute reader pointed out its relevance to us persuasively, we did not give 
the filing much thought.   





Background 
 


Cologuard is based on a DNA methylation biomarker, NDRG4, which Exact 
Sciences originally licensed from a publicly traded Belgian/US company 
named MDX Health.
EXAS and the MDX transaction May 23, 2017 Page 2 of 5 
 


  
MDX Health is a highly regarded PUBLIC company in the field of epigenetic 
diagnostics. The anchor investors include Biovest and Valiance, both highly 
regarded investors, plus noted biotech investor Marc Couke, who all have 
board representation.  These are astute and respected biotech investors.  
MDX is headquartered in Irvine, California and Herstal, Belgium.  
 
There is nobody involved in methylation epigenetic testing (e.g. 
biomarkers) who has not come across MDX Health.   
 


MDX has licensed out its most promising biomarkers except those that 
apply in urology which they keep in house.   An example is the world’s only 
biomarker for Glioblastoma (brain cancer), licensed from MDX to LabCorp 
and Teva. Various cervical cancer biomarkers are licensed out to Qiagen 
and Oncognostics. 





As stated by Exact … 
 





http://mdxhealth.com/press-release/mdxhealth-and-exact-sciences-sign-collaboration-agreement 
 


Exact did not issue a press release, but rather quietly announced the 
transaction, below the noise of earnings, that it had acquired NDRG4, the 
“science” behind Cologuard.  Why no Press Release?  Read on to find out. 





The Original Licensing Agreement 
 


MDX ‘s licensing agreement with EXAS was for the methylation 
biomarker NDRG4, and the technology covering the use of FIT (fecal 
immunochemical test) in combination with methylation. 
 


MDX disclosed that the licensing agreement provided for milestone 
payments and a royalty expressed as a percentage of Cologuard 
revenues in the low to mid-single digits.  Many close to MDX believe that 
this was 4%. Citron is going to give Exact the benefit of the doubt, and 
use 3% in its analysis below.  There were small milestone payments, 


“MDxHealth has established itself as a leader in the discovery and 
development of epigenetic and molecular diagnostics technologies”  


--  Dr. Graham Lidgard, CSO and SVP of R&D of Exact Sciences 


 



http://mdxhealth.com/press-release/mdxhealth-and-exact-sciences-sign-collaboration-agreement
EXAS and the MDX transaction May 23, 2017 Page 3 of 5 
 


which appear to be $2.3 million from prior public disclosures. 
 


  The Transaction Exact Science Does Not Want You To 
Analyze 
 


As EXAS shares increased in value, Exact has made no secret of the fact that 
it would like to buy the intellectual property controlling NDRG4.  
Negotiations were reasonably amicable, although EXAS did threaten to 
develop an alternative biomarker if a deal could not be reached.   Most 
observers discounted the possibility of EXAS replacing NDRG4 because the 
FDA approval is based on NDRG4.  
 
If Exact actually changed the biomarker in Cologuard, they would have to 
go back through FDA; all of their prior efficacy studies regarding 
Cologuard (NDRG4) would be immediately invalidated.  This could also 
open a Pandora’s box that no bio company wants to deal with… 
 


So here is the Transaction….and don't take a shit.   
  
On April 27


th
 MDX Health announced that it had sold the IP for NDRG4 


and associated technology for methylation diagnostic testing of fecal 
matter to EXAS for … $8 million. 


mdxhealth.com/press-release/mdxhealth-and-exact-sciences-sign-collaboration-agreement 
 


So the board of MDX felt that $8 million was a reasonable value for the 
future royalty revenues from Cologuard.   
 


Note: The board of MDX is well connected with a board of smart VCs and a 
“whose who” of European healthcare who have a keen sense of transaction 
valuations. 
 


The Disconnect that should concern Investors 
 


Let’s forget about milestone payments for these calculations.  (We estimate 
milestone payments less than $3 million, but we can put that aside for 
now.) 
 
Let’s give Exact the benefit of the doubt and assume Kevin Conroy and 
team could develop an alternative biomarker in 2 years and get FDA 



http://mdxhealth.com/press-release/mdxhealth-and-exact-sciences-sign-collaboration-agreement
EXAS and the MDX transaction May 23, 2017 Page 4 of 5 
 


approval and bring it to market, all within 1 year…..so that MDX could only 
count on 3 years of further royalties from Cologuard.  
 
(This is in truth overly optimistic, because most industry experts we spoke 
to said it would take a minimum of 5 years to get it tested and approved by 
FDA…)  
 


Based on royalty income alone, for just 3 years, if the “analyst” community 
are right about their sales forecasts for Cologuard … what royalty income 
would Cologuard generate? 
 


3% 


Median 
Revenue 
Forecast 


Highest 
Revenue 
Forecast 


Average of 
Median and 
Highest 


Royalty 
Income on 
Median 


Royalty 
Income on 
Average 


2017 206 230 218 6.9 6.54 


2018 309 376 342 11.28 10.26 


2019 497 540 518 16.2 15.54 


Total       34.38 32.34 


 
Investors had better ask themselves why the savvy venture capitalists on 
the board of MDX, in consultation with the chief scientists and top 
management of a company that is at the heart of epigenetic testing 
technology, would take $8 million when they’re queued up for this rich 
royalty stream. 
 


The following two points are all that you need to know as an 
investor in EXAS: 
  
1) MDX just accepted $8 million in lieu of $32+ million in royalty revenues 
because they thought $8 million was more than $32 million… 
                                                                                                                                       
2) MDX does not believe the street estimates for Cologuard sales because 
they understand the pipeline of competitive products.
EXAS and the MDX transaction May 23, 2017 Page 5 of 5 
 


Looked at another way, $8 million would have been a fair price if Cologuard 


sales are 1/4
th


 of street expectations AND the company was on track for 


quick FDA approval for a new biomarker. 
 


The crazy part about this transaction is that it is based on Exact’s gross 
revenues, and has nothing to do with profitability.  Meaning that MDX does 
not expect Cologuard to reach these level of sales regardless of their 
marketing budget. 
 
There are only three scenarios here: 


i) either Exact got the better deal and MDX is stupid,  
ii) either MDX got the better deal and Exact is stupid,  
iii) the deal transacted at fair market value.   








   The Only Conclusion 
 


Citron admits that right now we cannot predict the next wave of cancer 
testing, but we know that it is moving fast.  In 7 years from now we will be 
more likely to remember “dick in a box” than “poop in a box”… 
 


For those who are pop culturally challenged: 
 


 
 
http://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/snl-digital-short-d-in-a-
box/3505985?snl=1 
 


Cautious investing to all.   



http://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/snl-digital-short-d-in-a-box/3505985?snl=1

http://www.nbc.com/saturday-night-live/video/snl-digital-short-d-in-a-box/3505985?snl=1
