“When the well is dry, we know the worth of water.” -  Benjamin Franklin 





1 




















On November 23, 2016, we published our investment opinion (the “Report”) on CT Environmental Group Ltd (HK: 


1363) (“CTEG” or the “Company”), which primarily engages in industrial wastewater treatment and hazardous waste 


disposal through facilities in China.  On November 30, CTEG issued a cursory Clarification Announcement (the 


“Response”). 





We find CTEG’s Response wholly inadequate.  It attempts to rebut black-and-white data with assertions 


unsubstantiated by any documentary evidence.  Where CTEG has no answer to the damning evidence presented in 


our Report, the Company simply misconstrues our argument in a misguided attempt to confuse investors.  Where 


CTEG is not trying to confuse, it wholly ignores inconvenient facts and evidence.   





Here, we present a point-by-point rebuttal and present new evidence of undisclosed connections between CTEG and 


the supposed independent party from which the Company acquired three facilities in 2015. 





We continue to firmly believe that the Company is materially misrepresenting its reported financial performance and 


that its management is so untrustworthy that CTEG is simply uninvestable.  We continue to value CTEG’s shares at 


HKD 0.38 per share and believe that it is reasonable to expect even further downside pressure on the Company’s 


shares. 





1) Inflated Purchase Price for Undisclosed Related Party Acquisitions 
 


In 2015, CTEG acquired three facilities (for RMB 276 million) from Guangzhou Yingzhou Investment Co. Ltd. 


(“Guangzhou Yingzhou”).  In our Report, we presented comprehensive evidence from SAIC filings indicating that 


Guangzhou Yingzhou is an undisclosed related party secretly connected to CTEG’s Chairman.   





CTEG’s did not address this evidence in any way.  Rather, the Company’s response made the meek excuse that 


Chairman Tsui “never held interests” in Guangzhou Yingzhou, did not hold a formal position at the entity and did not 


exert any influence over it.  But this ignores the point, as we never argued that Chairman Tsui ever owned shares of 


Guangzhou Yingzhou or held an official position at the entity.  We argued that if Guangzhou Yingzhou is a connected 


party, then it calls into question whether the hundreds of millions of RMB paid by CTEG to Guangzhou Yingzhou 


since 2015 were naked transfers of wealth to insiders.   





Notably, CTEG does not dispute any of the evidence offered in our Report showing such connections, including 


evidence that:   





 Chairman Tsui owns 89% of To Kee Enterprises, a PRC entity which is the landlord of Guangzhou 
Yingzhou. 


 Chairman Tsui owns an interest in Xintao Credit (through another holding Company), an entity whose board 
supervisor, Guanghui Liu, is one of two shareholders of Guangzhou Yingzhou.   


THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not 


investment advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the 


securities covered herein. We have a short interest in CTEG’s stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument declines. 


Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


COMPANY:  CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363 


INDUSTRY:  Wastewater Treatment 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2016/11/GlaucusResearch-CT_Environmental_Group-Short-HKEX_1363_Nov_23_2016.pdf

http://en.chongto.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/Clarification-Announcement-and-Resumption-of-Trading.pdf
2 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





 Guangzhou Yingzhou was only incorporated on July 29, 2014, just a few weeks before it acquired Guanghui 
Huanbao.  In our opinion, this suggests that Guangzhou Yingzhou’s sole purpose was to serve as a secret 


related party middleman through which CTEG could mark up the value of its acquisitions.   


 Guangzhou Yingzhou had no operating history prior to purchasing water treatment facilities which it then 
flipped to the Company at a massive markup.   





In addition, we have discovered new evidence that Guangzhou Yingzhou is an undisclosed related party.  SAIC filings 


show that Guangzhou Yingzhou is owned by two individuals.  The first, as discussed in our Report, is Guanghui Liu, 


the board supervisor of Xintao Credit (indirectly owned by CTEG’s Chairman Tsui). 





The other shareholder of Guangzhou Yingzhou is Mr. Shuiman Wu. 





 
Source: http://gsxt.gdgs.gov.cn/aiccips/index 





Since publishing our Report, we discovered that this same Shuiman Wu was the representative on file for two CTEG 


subsidiaries in their annual audit reports to the SAIC offices.   





First, SAIC filings show that Shuiman Wu was the representative of record for Company subsidiary Guangzhou 


Kaizhou in an annual audit form, dated April 21, 2011, submitted to the SAIC offices on behalf of the CTEG 


subsidiary.  





 



http://gsxt.gdgs.gov.cn/aiccips/index
3 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Guangzhou Kaizhou SAIC Filings 





Next, SAIC filings show that Shuiman Wu was also the representative of record for Company subsidiary Guangzhou 


Xintao in another annual audit form, dated June 20, 2012, submitted to the SAIC offices on behalf of the CTEG 


subsidiary.
4 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Guangzhou Xintao SAIC Filings 





In both documents, Shuiman Wu is apparently acting on behalf of Company subsidiaries in their submissions to the 


SAIC offices.  It is unclear from the filings if he is an employee of CTEG or a representative, but his connection to 


the Company is in our opinion beyond doubt.
5 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 








This evidence is damning.  It shows that the other shareholder of supposedly independent third party Guangzhou 


Yingzhou was actually the Company’s representative of record in audit filings to PRC government offices.   
 








Shubiao


Xu


Legal Rep


Director


Executive 


Directors


Major Shareholder 


& Chairman


2015 


Acquisitions


To Kee


Enterprises


CT 


Environmental


(1363.HK)


Tsui Cham To


Guangzhou 


Yingzhou


Guanghui


Liu


Xintao Credit


Future 


Acquisitions


100% Owned 


Subsidiaries


Xu 


Juwen


Asst GM


Cousin


Board Supervisor


Shareholder


Shuiman


Wu


Shareholder


89% Shareholder


Ganghui Huanbao


Zhongtuo Kailan


Hanyang Shuiwu


Menghui


Technology


Guangzhou Jimei


Zhongling


Chemical


100% Owned 


Subsidiaries


Shareholder


Shareholder


Shareholder


Individual


Acquisition


Entrusted 


Operation


Prior relationship


Director


Landlord


Audit rep of company 


subsidiaries
6 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Guangzhou Yingzhou is a mysterious entity with no prior operating history whose sole business (as far as we can tell) 


is to acquire wastewater treatment facilities and then flip them to CTEG at a massive markup.  CTEG claims it is 


not a connected party, despite the fact that both its shareholders have clear connections to either CTEG or shell 


companies owned by CTEG’s chairman.   





Investors are free to make up their own minds, but in our opinion, the volume and depth of connections (as summarized 


in the above chart) indicate (obviously) that rather than being independent, Guangzhou Yingzhou is a connected party.  





We suspect that the Company concealed this information because records indicate that CTEG inflated the purchase 


price of entities acquired from the undisclosed related party.  As discussed in our Report, Guangzhou Yingzhou 


acquired three entities for RMB for 46 million, then one year later flipped these same facilities to the Company for 


RMB 276 million in 2015.   





 
Source: Company filings, SAIC filings 





If we consider only the acquisition consideration paid by the Company to acquire these three entities, it appears that 


undisclosed related party Guangzhou Yingzhou marked up the value of the three entities by 6.0x in just a year. 





In the Response, CTEG claims that the acquisition price paid by Guangzhou Yingzhou represented only the “registered 


capital” of the acquired entities and not the true acquisition cost (which includes assumed liabilities).   





This explanation is laughable.  SAIC filings showed Guangzhou Yingzhou’s purchase price for the acquired facilities.  


SAIC filings do not show any carve out of liabilities and do not make any distinction between acquired equity and 


registered capital, as the Company claims.  





But do not take our word for it.  Below is the purchase record for Guangzhou Yingzhou’s acquisition of Hanyang 


Shuiwu, which states that Guangzhou Yingzhou acquired 100% of the equity of the entity for only RMB 1 million.  


This filing makes no distinction between registered capital and purchase price, and makes no carve out of liabilities.   


in RMB'000


Acq Target Date Acquisition Cost Date


Reported 


Acquisition 


Cost


Total 


Acquisition 


Cost


Time difference
Δcost 


Reported


ΔCost%  


Reported


Ganghui Huanbao 9/10/2014 25,000 11/30/2015 72,948 221,563 14 monthes 47,948 2.9x


Hanyang Shuiwu 1/28/2015 1,000 11/30/2015 86,801 128,655 10 monthes 85,801 86.8x


Zhongtuo Kailan 5/4/2015 20,000 11/30/2015 115,776 277,712 7 months 95,776 5.8x


Total 46,000 275,525 627,930 229,525 6.x


Guangzhou Yingzhou CTEG
7 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





 
Source: Hanyang Shuiwu SAIC Filings 





CTEG acquired this same entity only 10 months later for an eyewatering RMB 86.8 million! In other words, SAIC 


filings show that the Company paid 87x times more than undisclosed related Guangzhou Yingzhou paid to 


acquire the exact same facility only ten months before! 





CTEG is simply reaching for any argument to confuse investors about the transaction history of these acquired entities.  


But investors should think clearly.  If Guangzhou Yingzhou acquired Ganghui Huanbao, Hanyang Shuiwu and 


Zhongtuo Kailan for RMB 46 million, and sold these same entities to CTEG a year later for RMB 276 million, then 


Guangzhou Yingzhou marked up the value of the entities by 6x.   





CTEG tries to claim in its Response that the Company paid a fair price to acquire these facilities, but we disagree.  


The reasonableness of a purchase price is determined by the price an asset fetches in an open market in an arms length 


transaction.  CTEG has no credibility because in our opinion, the record definitively indicates that CTEG purchased 


the acquired entities from an undisclosed related party whose connections to the Chairman and the Company were 


concealed by the Company.  We think that the market value of the acquired facilities is much better judged by the 


purchase price paid by Guangzhou Yingzhou on the open market (RMB 46 million) and not the markup at which an 


undisclosed related party sold such facilities to the public Company. 





As we discussed in our Report, CTEG’s reported “acquisition consideration” ignores the true cost to shareho lders 


because the three acquisitions owed RMB 352 million in mysterious “payables” to undisclosed parties.  If we include 


the mysterious payables, the purchase price of these three facilities was inflated by 13.7x.  In our report, we suspected 


that some of the payables were owed to prior shareholders, including potentially Guangzhou Yingzhou.
8 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Unbelievably, CTEG admitted in its Response that our suspicions were correct and that some of the “payables” 


of the acquired entities were for “shareholders’ loans extended to the Acquired Facilities by their previous owners 


prior to the Acquisitions… These liabilities were substantially settled in 2015 and 2016.” 





We believe that CTEG has a duty to disclose to investors the identity of the recipients of such payables, including 


whether such funds were paid to Guangzhou Yingzhou.  We leave it to regulators with subpoena power to determine 


whether such payments ended up in the hands of insiders, but in our opinion, the evidence is compelling. 





Ultimately, public records indicate that CTEG’s Chairman was connected to all three facilities which the Company 


acquired at a massive markup from an undisclosed related party.  In our view, these transactions either represent a 


naked transfer of wealth to insiders or are fake capital expenditures designed to mask fabricated profits.     





2) Inflation of Reported Wastewater Treatment Volumes 
 


In our Report, we presented publicly available data from the Ministry of Environmental Protection (“MEP”), which 


directly contradicts the Company’s reported figures for the utilization of two key BOO facilities: Guangzhou Xintao 


Industrial Park Treatment Facility (“Xintao”) and Guangzhou Yinglong Wastewater Treatment Company Limited 


(“Yinglong”).   





CTEG’s Response is two-fold.  First, the Company claims, without any evidence other than mere assertion, that the 


MEP data is not authoritative or accurate.  Rather, CTEG argues that its claimed processing volumes are confirmed 


by data published by the Guangzhou Environmental Protection Bureau (“GZEP” data), which has published tracking 


data since July 2015.  Second, the Company claims that the MEP data measures “discharge” volumes, not “treatment” 


volumes, and therefore does not account for reclaimed water “recycled” to other treatment facilities.  We will address 


each in turn.  





a) Data, Data Everywhere but not a Drop to Drink 
 


Because wastewater treatment is a highly regulated business, the MEP publishes an annual list of the volume of 


wastewater processed at urban sewage treatment facilities around China.  These annual MEP lists, published from 


2012-2014, state the average daily treatment capacity and average daily processing volume for thousands of 


facilities in the PRC, including CTEG’s key BOO facilities Xintao and Yinglong.   





The Company begs investors to ignore the MEP data because it indicates that CTEG exaggerated the treatment 


volumes at its two key BOO facilities.  Instead, the Company pleads with investors to focus on the GZEP data, which 


it says is the authoritative data on real-time processing volume. 





First, it is critical to note that the MEP data does not contradict the GZEP data.  GZEP data is only available from 


July 2015, so it does not contradict or undermine MEP figures from 2012-2014 cited in our Report.   





Second, investors should recall that we have identified other sources which corroborate the treatment volumes 


reported in the MEP data.  With respect to Xintao, MEP data matches figures reported by a PRC government website, 


the Guangdong Environmental Protection Bureau, and an article published in 2014 by Dowater, an industry website.  


With respect to Yinglong, another article published by trade website Dowater in 2014 corroborates the MEP data.  


The fact that the MEP data matches the data cited by a Chinese government website and an industry website (both of 


which are independent), gives us more confidence that the data is accurate.  





Third, anyone dismissing the MEP data has a problem.  As a highly regulated industry, the MEP spends a great deal 


of time and resources monitoring the quality and quantity of wastewater treated at major facilities throughout China. 


Why would the MEP go to such lengths to collect data for thousands of facilities around the PRC and not care if such 


data is false?  To believe CTEG, you have to believe that every year, the MEP painstakingly collects data from 


thousands of facilities but does not care about the accuracy of such data.  The MEP is not collecting such data for fun.  


If it was inaccurate, there would be no point to the exercise.   





Fourth, CTEG fails to address the critical point that the MEP data matches the claimed utilization rates of other 


publicly listed companies, Beijing Water (HK: 0371) and Kangda (HK: 6136).  If the MEP data is accurate for Beijing 


Water and Kangda, why would it be wrong for CTEG?  



http://www.gdep.gov.cn/

http://www.dowater.com/company/2014-09-24/272564.html

http://www.dowater.com/

http://www.dowater.com/company/2014-09-24/272564.html
9 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 








Fifth, we have seen examples with other Hong Kong listed companies where the MEP data correctly reflected an 


exaggeration of profitability and financial performance.  In 2013, Glaucus released a report alerting the market that 


according to MEP data, Hong Kong listed China Metal Recycling (HK: 0773) (“CMR”) was a blatant fraud that was 


fabricating its reported revenues and profits.  Hong Kong regulators and courts agreed.  MEP data was authoritative 


with respect to CMR, and we believe that it is reliable here.    





b) Xintao: MEP Data and Reclaimed Water 
 


CTEG’s second response to the black-and-white MEP data is the argument that at least with respect to its Xintao 


facility, the MEP data measures “discharge” volumes, not “treatment” volumes.  As such, CTEG argues that MEP 


data does not capture water recycled or “reclaimed” by the Xintao facility and thus understates the actual wastewater 


processed by 50% or more.   





First, CTEG makes this assertion with absolutely no evidence to back it up.  The MEP monitors and measures 


wastewater treatment in order to make sure that facilities are conforming to Chinese laws and regulations regarding 


the amount of pollutants in treated water.  This applies to discharged and reclaimed water alike, meaning that the MEP 


would still monitor whether such “reclaimed” wastewater met such standards.  In other words, there is no reason to 


believe that the MEP is not monitoring and measuring wastewater at the inflow and treatment points.  The notion that 


the MEP is only concerned with “discharged” water is an assertion made without any evidentiary foundation and 


which contradicts the basic purpose of the MEP monitoring system.   





Second, CTEG’s assertion contradicts the plain language published in the MEP data set.  As any investor can see 


below, the MEP lists two categories for each facility it monitors: the design capacity and the “average processing 


volume.”   





2013 MEP Facilities List 





 
Source: http://www.mep.gov.cn/gkml/hbb/bgg/201404/W020140415399348916037.pdf 





 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/01/GlaucusResearch-China_Metal_Recycling_Holdings_Ltd-HK0773-Strong_Sell_January_28_2013.pdf

http://www.mep.gov.cn/gkml/hbb/bgg/201404/W020140415399348916037.pdf
10 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





2014 MEP Facilities List 


 
Source: http://www.mep.gov.cn/gkml/hbb/bgg/201506/W020150609575919731164.pdf 





The MEP list does not report the “discharge” volumes, but the volume of water “processed” by each facility.  A plain 


reading of the MEP data undermines the Company’s contention that MEP data is merely reporting “discharge” volume.   





Third, this excuse would only apply to the Xintao facility and not the Yinglong facility, which according to the 


Company does not recycle water.  Reclamation still does not explain why the MEP data shows that the Company 


overstated their treatment volumes at the Yinglong facility.  





c) GZEP Data 
 


CTEG insists that GZEP data is accurate, but we believe that even this data set undermines the Company’s claims.  


GZEP data goes back to July 2015.  In 2015, the Company claimed that the Xintao facility operated at 100% capacity.  


We think that the Company’s excuse that MEP and GZEP data does not capture reclaimed water is just a ruse designed 


to trick investors.  But even if you assume, for arguments sake, that the Xintao facility recycled 50% of its treated 


wastewater, GZEP data indicates that the Xintao facility operated at only 68% capacity in 2015.1  This is a lot closer 


to the utilization rates reported by the MEP data in 2014 (54%) than the claimed 100% utilization rate claimed by the 


Company.   


 
Source: http://www.gzepb.gov.cn/wryhjjgml/jczf/fszdjk/index_5.html 





                                                             
1 We calculated this by taking the amount of wastewater reported in the GZEP data, and dividing by 0.50.  Again, this assume 
that the Company is telling the truth and that GZEP and MEP do not capture reclaimed water, which we think is wrong.   


Summary


Capacity 100,000


Oct-16 42%


Sep-16 43%


Aug-16 46%


Jul-16 43%


Jun-16 43%


May-16 42%


Apr-16 48%


Mar-16 37%


Feb-16 n.a


Jan-16 34%


Dec-15 42%


Nov-15 37%


Oct-15 37%


Sep-15 31%


Aug-15 30%


Jul-15 28%


2015 Average 34%


Xintao



http://www.mep.gov.cn/gkml/hbb/bgg/201506/W020150609575919731164.pdf

http://www.gzepb.gov.cn/wryhjjgml/jczf/fszdjk/index_5.html
11 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Again, the GZEP data does not contradict the MEP data because they do not overlap.  But investors taking the 


Company’s excuse at face value must question why, assuming a 50% reclamation rate, the GZEP data suggests a 


utilization rate closer to 68% for 2015, a figure far closer to the MEP data than the Company’s claimed utilization of 


100%.   





Ultimately, we believe that there is ample evidence to indicate that the MEP data is authoritative.  MEP data is 


corroborated by other independent governmental and private sources, it is accurate with respect to other publicly listed 


wastewater treatment companies (Kangda and Beijing Water), it was definitive in the case of China Metal Recycling, 


and the data set is the product of a national monitoring system in which the Chinese government invests significant 


time and resources.  And it does not contradict any GZEP data cited by CTEG, because such data began collection 


after the MEP stopped publishing its annual lists.  





According to the MEP data, from 2012 through 2014, CTEG overstated the average daily volume of water treated at 


the Xintao facility by 82% and at the Yinglong facility by 54%.  Based on our assumptions outlined in our Report, we 


estimate that CTEG’s gross profit from its BOO segment was 67% less than reported for that segment from 2012-


2014.  Because CTEG’s wastewater treatment segment from its BOO facilities is the Company’s primary driver of 


profitability, the impact of the Company’s misrepresentations is severe.   





3) Den of Thieves 
 


In our Report, we highlighted that the Chairman of China Metal Recycling (HK: 0773) (“CMR”) was a founding 


board member of two of CTEG original PRC operating subsidiaries.  In its Response, CTEG tries to minimize its 


connections to the disgraced Mr. Chun, saying that the Company broke off its ties to him in 2007.  Regardless, the 


stink of CMR remains.   





CMR and Mr. Chun orchestrated one of the most notorious stock frauds in Hong Kong history. Given the 


preponderance of the evidence presented in our Report, we believe that it is material that this stock fraudster was 


intimately involved in the foundation of the Company and that his relationship with CTEG’s Chairman Tsui was so 


close that he was referred to as a “business partner” in CMR’s Global Offering.   





It is reasonable to judge a Company by the company it keeps.  





4) SAIC Filings Reveal Fabricated Financial Performance of Acquisition 
 


In April 2014, CTEG acquired Qingyuan Lvyou Environmental Protection Technology Company Limited (“Qingyuan 


Lvyou”) for an aggregate consideration of RMB 125 million.  To increase investor confidence in the transaction, 


Qingyuan Lvyou’s founder Mr. Gu Yao Kun (“Mr. Gu”) guaranteed to generate a minimum profit of HKD 80 million, 


HKD 100 million, and HKD 120 million for the three years 2014 through 2016, whereby he would pay cash 


compensation equal to ten times the shortfall in the event of missing the minimum profit threshold.  In its 2014 


Annual Report, CTEG disclosed that Qingyuan Lvyou generated net profits greater than HKD 80 million in 2014, 


resulting in zero shortfall payments by Mr. Gu back to CTEG. 





In our Report, we highlighted SAIC filings which indicate that Qingyuan Lvyou generated a net loss of RMB 13.8 


million in 2013, and generated a net profit of only RMB 27.2 million in 2014, at least 82% less than the aggregate 


profits reported to investors by CTEG in those two years. 





CTEG argues in its Response that we failed to consider the timing of the acquisition.  CTEG claims that Qingyuan 


Lvyou recorded a loss of RMB 39 million from January to April 2014, but from May to December 2014 (when its 


results were consolidated with CTEG’s), it generated a net profit of RMB 66 million, thereby satisfying the minimum 


threshold.   





This explanation is ludicrous for a few reasons.  First, if the business generated RMB 39 million in net losses in the 


first four months of 2014 (RMB 9.75 million in net losses per month), how could it magically turn around and 


generate RMB 66 million in profits in the next eight months (RMB 8.25 million in profits per month)?  To us, this 


fails the smell test.  Such a dramatic turnaround, immediately after acquisition, is highly unlikely.  


 



http://www.hkexnews.hk/listedco/listconews/SEHK/2014/0430/LTN201404301320.pdf
12 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





Second, why would the sellers sell Qingyuan Lvyou for only RMB 125 million if the business could guarantee a net 


profit of RMB 80 million per year? CTEG is trying to claim that it acquired a business at 1.6x forward twelve month 


earnings, which seems too ridiculous to be true.   





CTEG’s excuses with respect to Qingyuan Lvyou’s 2013 financials are even more unbelievable.  CTEG told investors 


that Qingyuan Lvyou generated RMB 11 million in net profit in 2013, but SAIC filings show a net loss of RMB 13.8 


million in 2013. In its Response, CTEG tried to reconcile the difference by arguing that the SAIC figures did not 


include profits generated by entities acquired in December 2013, which were consolidated on a pro forma basis for 


the Company’s filings.   





On a pro forma basis, CTEG claims that Qingyuan Lvyou generated RMB 25.7 million in net profits in 2013.  But 


that seems unlikely considering that CTEG stated in a prior paragraph that Qingyuan Lvyou lost RMB 39 million in 


the first four months of 2014! How could the business lose RMB 39 million in the first four months of 2014, when 


such acquisitions were fully consolidated, but generate a net profit of RMB 27 million in 2013 on a pro forma basis?  





The Company’s reconciliations are farcical.  We believe that SAIC filings show that the Company fabricated the 


profitability of its acquisition and that the Company’s excuses are so unbelievable that it approaches comedy.  But not 


quite.   





5) Entrusted Operation Services 
 


The Company insists that its entrusted operations are a valuable business strategy to test out the viability of proposed 


acquisitions.  This is beside the point.   





We raised the issue because at least half of entrusted operations’ EBITDA was generated by projects owned by 


undisclosed related party Guangzhou Yingzhou.  Revenue and profits from related parties is subject to higher scrutiny 


by auditors.  We questioned these reported profits because the Company failed to disclose such connections between 


the owner of the entrusted facilities and CTEG’s Chairman.  These questions remain.  





6) Questionable Land Purchase 
 


In our Report, we questioned why the Company would spend RMB 44 million on land in 2013 only to leave it idle, 


which is in clear violation of the auction rules at which the land was purchased.  





CTEG does not dispute our account, instead claiming that it has begun pre-construction preparation, which is another 


way to say that construction has not begun.  It also says its negotiating an extension with local government officials. 


But this begs the question of why the Company would spend RMB 44 million on land just to leave it idle?  





7) Record Profitability at Odds with Serial Capital Raising 
 


Wastewater treatment in China is a crowded and commoditized space which is heavily regulated by the Chinese 


government.  We would not expect a business like CTEG, without a material technological advantage over its 


competitors, to report financial performance which significantly deviated from its peers.  Yet CTEG’s reported 


financial performance so exceeds that of its peers that its reported figures simply defy credibility.   





For example, from 2010-2015, CTEG reported returns on capital as high as 29% and never dropping below a 


staggering 17%.  During that same period, a basket of other wastewater treatment and waste disposal companies in 


China reported an average return on capital of 7-9%.  CTEG’s reported performance is just as unbelievable when 


looking at reported profitability.  In FY 2015, CTEG reported net income margins of 42%, which was more than 


double the average of its peers.  





In a commoditized space with thousands of treatment facilities, how can a Company like CTEG without a 


technological advantage or economies of scale so significantly outperform other Chinese companies building the same 


facilities to treat the same waste?
13 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                        www.glaucusresearch.com 





CTEG’s Response predictably states that its profitability is due to the BOO model, whereas its peers focus on the less 


profitable BOT model.  CTEG claims that its key advantage is the ability to negotiate pricing directly with customers, 


and as a result, a comparison with other listed wastewater treatment companies is not appropriate.   





But this argument is facile and ignores a simple truth.  Firms in highly competitive industries tend to only enjoy profit 


advantages for a short time before other firms copy their model.  CTEG has been reporting net margins and returns 


on capital far in excess of other wastewater treatment companies since 2010.  If the BOO model were truly such 


an advantage, why haven’t other wastewater treatment companies, including ones with much bigger balance sheets 


such as Beijing Water, not copied the BOO model?  





If the BOO model were as profitable as CTEG claims, other firms would enter the market.  CTEG’s historic 


profitability defies the simple laws of economics.   





In our opinion, CTEG’s reported financials appear simply too good to be true.  The fact that despite such profitability, 


CTEG is a serial capital raiser only compounds our suspicion.  We have seen this pattern before in other listed 


companies that turned out to be frauds.  Like CMED and CMR, despite supposedly generating consistent and world-


beating profit margins, CTEG is a serial capital raiser.  Just because CTEG is in a capital-intensive business is no 


excuse.  Recall that CMR, one of the most brazen frauds in Hong Kong history, also tried to make the excuse that its 


serial capital raising was justified by its need to invest in capital intensive scrap recycling facilities.  We were not 


fooled then and we are not fooled now.  











 



https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2011/12/GlaucusResearch-China_Medical-CMED-Strong_Sell_December_6_2011.pdf

https://glaucusresearch.com/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2013/01/GlaucusResearch-China_Metal_Recycling_Holdings_Ltd-HK0773-Strong_Sell_January_28_2013.pdf
14 





CT Environmental Group Ltd. │ HK: 1363                                    www.glaucusresearch.com 





DISCLAIMER 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is CTEG. So are the banks that raised money for the Company. If 
you are invested (either long or short) in CTEG, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like 


everyone else, are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the 


publication of our opinions about the public companies we research is in the public interest.  
 


You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. Obviously, we will make money if the price of CTEG stock declines. This report and 


all statements contained herein are the opinion of Glaucus Research Group California, LLC, and are not statements of fact. Our 


opinions are held in good faith, and we have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our research report 
to support our opinions. We conducted research and analysis based on public information in a manner that any person could have 


done if they had been interested in doing so. You can publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on 


to write this report. Think critically about our report and do your own homework before making any investment decisions. We are 


prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of law.  
 


As of the publication date of this report, Glaucus Research Group California, LLC (a California limited liability company) (possibly 


along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors 


has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or options) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 
significant gains if the price of CTEG’s stock declines. Use Glaucus Research Group California, LLC’s research at your own risk. 


You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to the securities covered 


herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor should they be construed as investment advice or any 


recommendation of any kind.  
 


Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, 


or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any 


security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under 
the securities laws of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and 


reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected 


persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is 


evident by the contents of our research and analysis, we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our 
research analysis and written materials are complete and accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our 


opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, however, all such information is presented “as is,” without 


warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  


 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Glaucus Research Group California, 


LLC research and materials on behalf of: (A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high 


value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the 


“FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financial institution, government or local authority, or international 
organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  





This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 


paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its author to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the 
rest of the report.  The section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in 


reference to the detailed statements of opinions in their respective sections.  





Glaucus Research Group California, LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 
completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and Glaucus Research Group California, LLC does not undertake a duty to update or supplement 


this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report you knowingly and independently 


agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be governed by the laws of the 
State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the 


superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given that 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC is a California limited liability company that operates in California; and (iii) that 


regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the 
material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of 


Glaucus Research Group California, LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer shall not constitute a 


waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 


parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision and 
rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction 


provision.
