Page 1 of 9 
 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC 





Aurelius Equity Opportunities SE & Co KGaA:  





Can Dirk Markus be trusted? Part I  





 
Source: Aurelius’ website and Annual Reports 


Gotham City Research was unable to verify that Dirk 
Markus holds a PHD from Harvard University;  


in fact, we were unable to verify that Dirk Markus holds 
any degrees from Harvard 


"Someone who lies about the little things will lie about the big things too."  


- Terry McAuliffe
Page 2 of 9 
 


Disclaimer: 


By reading this report, you agree that use of GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event 
will you hold GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused 
by any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a recommendation or solicitation to buy or 
sell any securities. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is not registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. 
GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is unrelated to, and not affiliated or associated with, Gotham Asset Management, LLC 
or any of its affiliates. 


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to 
securities covered herein. You represent to GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. You further agree that you will 
not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by 
these same terms of service.  


Conflict of Interest Advice: You should assume that on the publication date of this report, GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH 
LLC has a net short position with respect to the shares (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives related to the 
shares) of the issuer discussed in this report. Therefore, GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC stands to profit in the event the 
issuer’s share price declines, and may incur investment losses if such issuer’s share price increases, following the date 
of this report. This report, therefore, specifically emphasizes negative aspects of the issuer that GOTHAM CITY 
RESEARCH LLC believes have not been properly reflected in the share price of the issuer.  GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH 
LLC may buy, sell, cover or otherwise change the form or substance of its position in the issuer in its sole discretion at 
any time. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC disclaims any obligation to notify the market of any such changes in advance. 


This research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, assessments, beliefs, views, 
and opinions of GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC prepared with respect to, among other things, certain accounting, 
legal, and regulatory issues the issuer may faces and the potential impact of those issues on its future business, 
financial condition and results of operations, as well as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating 
performance, access to capital markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, 
projections and opinions may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and 
uncertainties beyond GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s control. 


This research and report expresses GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s opinions, which have been solely based upon 
publicly available information, as well as inferences and deductions through our research and analytical process. 
GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC believes all factual information contained herein to be accurate and reliable, and 
has obtained such information from public sources believed to be accurate and reliable. However, the issuer may 
possess or have access to information that materially differs from the information presented herein. 


The information in this report is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. 
GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or 
completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  All expressions of 
opinion are subject to change without notice, and GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is not obligated to update or 
supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.
Page 3 of 9 
 


Table of Contents 


I. Disclaimer 
II. Was Dirk Markus awarded a PHD by Harvard University? 


III. Aurelius’ Dirk Markus is not listed in the Harvard Alumni Directory 
IV. Dirk Markus is not listed as an honorary degree recipient 
V. Was Dirk Markus a “Research Fellow” at Harvard? 


VI. Harvard credential misrepresentations: editorial mistakes?
Page 4 of 9 
 


Was Dirk Markus awarded a PHD by Harvard University? 


Gotham City Research believes that Dirk Markus holds no PHD from Harvard University 


Aurelius claims that Dirk Markus was awarded a PHD by Harvard University: 





Gotham City Research believes that Dirk Markus holds no PHD from Harvard University; in fact, we 
believe  that Dirk Markus holds no degrees from Harvard at all for the following reasons: 


 Aurelius’ Dirk Markus is not mentioned in Harvard’s alumni directory. 
 Student Clearinghouse was unable to verify any Harvard University degrees for a Dirk Markus. 
 Dirk Markus is not mentioned among those listed as honorary degree holders. 
 We contacted Harvard and the contact person who we spoke with is unaware of any official or 


unofficial joint PHD programs between St. Gallen and Harvard. 


Does management dishonesty even matter for long term shareholder value?  


If Aurelius’ shares were trading at a discount to NAV or book value, some would argue that management 
dishonesty is “priced in” to the stock price. Based on our study of suspect financial companies, the 
“dishonesty is priced in” thesis tends not to work well when investing in financial companies. For example, 
see the case of Home Capital Group, a Canadian financial company, whose shares declined -65% yesterday. 
American short sellers have alleged the company’s management is dishonest and engages in suspect 
practices. A high dividend yield has not prevented the stock from declining -85% in 1 year. 


Unlike Home Capital Group, Aurelius’ shares currently trade at a premium to NAV, a large premium to 
book value, and a very large premium versus its European peers. The market does not seem to be pricing 
in any “dishonesty discount” to Aurelius’ share price. We would understand if Aurelius and Dirk Markus 
were exemplary in their corporate governance, disclosures, and integrity. That doesn’t seem to be the 
case, however; to the contrary, the list of concerns is only growing: 


 Why does Aurelius and/or Dirk Markus misrepresent Dirk Markus’ academic credentials? Why is 
Dirk Markus’ past role as a senior executive at Arques, omitted from his biographies? 


 Who is Aurelius’ CFO? Why did some of the bank analysts believe Dirk Markus is the CFO? 
 How many shares does Dirk Markus own? Why does he refuse to disclose this information? 
 Is Aurelius attempting to sell SECOP to Nidec at a 30%-50% discount to its SECOP NAV valuation? 


If so, shouldn’t a similar discount be applied to Aurelius’ entire NAV?   
 Has Aurelius historically generated substantial profits from asset stripping? 


If Dirk Markus were lying about the small things, how can he be trusted – as the CEO of Aurelius – to tell 
the truth about more important matters?
Page 5 of 9 
 


Dirk Markus is not listed in the Harvard Alumni Directory 


According to the online Harvard Alumni directory, Aurelius’ CEO, Dirk Markus, is not listed: 











The gentleman listed in the directory, Dirk Dubber Markus, is not Aurelius’ Dirk Markus. Aurelius’ Dirk 
Markus, is Dirk E. Markus, not Dirk Dubber Markus. Also, there is no evidence that Aurelius’ Dirk Markus 
has any ties to Canada. Finally, Aurelius’ Dirk Markus has never represented attending Harvard as an 
undergraduate (the ‘AB’ designation, shown above, denotes an undergraduate).
Page 6 of 9 
 


The National Student Clearinghouse was unable to verify a degree for Dirk Markus 


We contacted Harvard University (the Registrar’s Office). We were instructed to visit the National Student 
Clearinghouse ( http://www.studentclearinghouse.org/ ). We were told that we would be able to verify 
whether or not Dirk Markus earned a PHD from Harvard University, through this service. The National 
Student Clearinghouse was unable to verify a degree for Dirk Markus: 











Maybe Dirk Markus earned a PHD from a joint program between St. Gallen and Harvard? 


One could interpret (below, provided from Aurelius’ Annual Reports) 





to mean that Dirk Markus earned either two separate PHDs from both institutions (which is unusual), or 
that he earned one PHD through some kind of joint program, between St. Gallen and Harvard.  


 Based on our prior findings, there is no evidence that he earned ANY degree from Harvard. 
 According to Harvard’s Office for Visiting Fellows/Special Students, there is no, and never has 


been, any formal nor informal programs between St. Gallen University and Harvard University. 
 We searched, via google search engine, for “Harvard St. Gallen” and found no evidence of any 


joint programs.
Page 7 of 9 
 


Dirk Markus is not listed as an honorary degree recipient 


Given that Aurelius claims its CEO Dirk Markus was “awarded” a PHD from Harvard University, one 
might think Dirk Markus may have not earned a PHD from Harvard; rather, he was honored with one.  


The problem we find with this theory - Harvard University publicly lists honorary degree recipients and 
Dirk Markus is not listed as a recipient: 








For the full list of honorary degree recipients (includes the likes of Winston Churchill, Albert Einstein, 
etc, not people alleged to raid pension funds): http://www.harvard.edu/on-
campus/commencement/honorary-degrees
Page 8 of 9 
 


Was Dirk Markus a “Research Fellow” at Harvard? 


According to the Dirk Markus CV listed on the Berentzen website, Dirk Markus does not hold a PHD from 
Harvard; rather he was a “Visiting Research Fellow” at the Harvard Business School: 








Source: http://www.berentzen-
gruppe.de/fileadmin/dateien/Investoren/Die_Aktiengesellschaft/Lebenslaeufe_AR-
Mitglieder/AR_Lebenslauf_Markus_2017_EN.pdf 





Is this even correct? It is our understanding that “Research Fellow” at Harvard Business School is a title 
typically reserved for a faculty appointment; we were unable to find any records of Dirk Markus ever 
having any faculty position at Harvard. 


Sources: http://www.hbs.edu/businesshistory/fellowships/Pages/default.aspx 


http://www.hbs.edu/ra/Pages/default.aspx
Page 9 of 9 
 


Harvard credential misrepresentations: editorial mistakes? 


Aurelius referred to accounting misstatements that we identified, in its audited financial statements, as 
mere “editorial mistakes”: 





Source: http://aureliusinvest.com/statement_aurelius_gotham.pdf  


Could it be that the Dirk Markus credential misrepresentation is an “editorial mistake” as well? We think 
not, for the following reasons: 


 Dirk Markus’ biography, in Aurelius’ Annual Reports, was changed three times between 2008-
2010 (see for yourself; the biographies were very clearly edited in those 3 annual reports).   


 The Harvard misrepresentation is on Aurelius’ website (the English version). 
 The Harvard misrepresentation is found in every Annual Report since 2009. 
 The C.V. on the Berentzen website makes an inconsistent (and similarly dubious) Harvard claim; 


rather than “Harvard PHD”, Dirk Markus was a “Visiting Research Fellow” 


How would a mere “editorial mistake” explain such a persistent misrepresentation?  


Aurelius’ behaviors would not be tolerated, if its shares were listed on the US share exchanges 


In our opinion (based on our experience with US share markets, understanding of its rules/regulations 
and US market history), Aurelius and its management’s behaviors would not be tolerated in US markets. 
The following behaviors lead us to this belief: 


 Dirk Markus would not be allowed to refuse disclosing his share ownership in Aurelius shares; 
also, his claim that he could not disclose due to “legal reasons” might itself be legally tested; 


 Aurelius’ inconsistent (and in our opinion, contradictory) claims about who their CFO is, would 
lead to some serious regulatory scrutiny from the SEC; 


 The omission of Dirk Markus’ stint at Arques Industries might be deemed as a material omission; 
 Aurelius and/or Dirk Markus’ credential misrepresentations would pressure Markus to resign; 
 The allegations of asset stripping would be well scrutinized by the US media, various regulators, 


and possibly US market participants; there would be no way to hide from the truth; 
 The SEC would not tolerate irregularities/misrepresentations explained as “editorial mistakes”.
