GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC www.gothamcityresearch.com info@gothamcityresearch.com 
 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC 





Criteo SA (NASDAQ: CRTO):  


Why We Believe 


Criteo’s Undisclosed Practices 


are Illegal and  


Harmful to Advertisers  
 








“I don’t think most big name online retailers would risk losing the trust of their customer base by 
employing nefarious tracking mechanisms like this”  


– Sam Greenhalgh, Security Researcher 











What has Criteo been hiding?  


And why is Criteo destroying evidence? 


Criteo’s undisclosed acts of desperation  


show that Apple’s ITP is a game changer
Page 2 of 18 
 


Disclaimer: 


By reading this report, you agree that use of GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s research is at your own risk. 
In no event will you hold GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or 
indirect trading losses caused by any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a 
recommendation or solicitation to buy any securities. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is not registered as an 
investment advisor in any jurisdiction. Gotham City Research LLC is not affiliated or associated with 
Gotham Asset Management, LLC or any of its affiliates. 


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect 
to securities covered herein. You represent to GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC that you have sufficient 
investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that 
person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  


You should assume that as of the publication date of this report, GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC stands to 
profit in the event the issuer’s stock declines. We may buy, sell, cover or otherwise change the form or 
substance of its position in the issuer. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC disclaims any obligation to notify the 
market of any such changes. 


Our research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, and opinions 
prepared with respect to, among other things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer 
faces and the potential impact of those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of 
operations, as well as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital 
markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions 
may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties 
beyond GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s control. 


Our research and report expresses our opinions, which we have based upon generally available 
information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. 
GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC believes all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has 
been obtained from sources we believe to be accurate and reliable.  


However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. 
GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC, makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, 
or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.  All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is not 
obligated to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained 
in them. 


You should assume that this report, as well as additional material not included in this report, has and/or 
will be submitted to various entities, including but not limited to: Apple, SEC, FTC, EU Parliament, etc.
Page 3 of 18 
 


Table of Contents 


I. Disclaimer 
II. Summary 


III. Undisclosed practices and technology: what Criteo is hiding 
IV. Why Criteo’s use of Super cookies is illegal & on borrowed time 
V. We wrote to Apple: Apple is working on eliminating this abuse
Page 4 of 18 
 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC 
a 
















































































GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH’S OPINIONS: 


 Criteo’s Apple ITP workaround – the HSTS (HTTP Strict 
Transport Security) super cookie – is being used in 
violation of Section 5 of the FTC Act. 


 Criteo will abandon their Apple ITP workaround due to the 
FTC, client pressure, Apple, and/or our efforts. 


 Apple is working on defeating Criteo’s privacy abuses, 
based on Apple’s response to us from ~1 week ago. 


 Criteo’s user tracking & consent practices are in violation 
of coming European regulation (GDRP, article 7 recital 32) 
in May 2018, and will face fines of up to 4% of revenues. 


 Criteo’s acts of desperation show that Apple’s ITP is a 
game changer for Criteo and other ad targeting firms. 


 Most advertisers, including Criteo clients, would not risk 
losing the trust of their customers by employing nefarious 
tracking mechanisms like super cookies. 


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH’S OBSERVATIONS  


 A Criteo Japan webpage on Sept. 20 included some details 
about its Apple workaround but destroyed it 1 day later.  


 There is no mention of Criteo’s Apple workaround (the 
HSTS super cookies) in the public domain.  


 HSTS super cookies can be used by any unauthorized third 
parties to track users, even if users opt out. 


 HSTS super cookies cannot be removed by users and may 
be indestructible by all parties, including Criteo. 


 Criteo clients have not been informed of the dangers super 
cookies pose, based on a client email we reviewed. 


 Criteo Opt-out links do not work, contrary to disclosures. 
 Criteo’s Opt-out based approach is not consistent with an 


affirmative consent requirement as stipulated by GDPR. 
 Super cookie practice contradicts Criteo’s privacy policy. 
 In public disclosures Criteo claims it “may use non-cookie 


technologies in limited cases”, contradicted by private 
email to clients. 
 


Company: Criteo SA 


Business: Ad Retargeting 
(95%-100% of revenue) 


Ticker: CRTO 


Exchange: NASDAQ 


CEO: Eric Eichmann 
(based in New York) 


Headquarters: France 


Price target: $12.50 per 
share 


Market cap: $2.72B 


52-week high: $55.39 


52-week low: $33.09 


Shares outstanding: 
65.3M 


‘14-‘17 net margins: 4.7% 


H1 ‘17 ARPU Decline: -6% 


Auditor: Deloitte & 
Associés (France) 


Insider selling 2017 YTD: 
1.1M shares sold in 2017  


Executive Departures: 


+18 executives, including 
2 founders, have left since 
2013.
Page 5 of 18 
 


Undisclosed practices and technology: what Criteo is hiding   
Criteo is hiding details about its Apple ITP workaround from users  


Apple launched its Intelligent Tracking Prevention (“ITP”) feature on its latest IOS update (IOS 11) several 
weeks ago, seeking to protect its users from being tracked while browsing on the internet. Amidst criticism 
from advertising trade groups, Apple reaffirmed its commitment to protect user privacy, with the 
following statement released on September 15, 2017: 


Apple believes that people have a right to privacy – Safari was the first browser to block third-
party cookies by default and Intelligent Tracking Prevention is a more advanced method for 
protecting user privacy. 


Ad tracking technology has become so pervasive that it is possible for ad tracking companies to 
recreate the majority of a person’s web browsing history. This information is collected without 
permission and is used for ad re-targeting, which is how ads follow people around the Internet. 
The new Intelligent Tracking Prevention feature detects and eliminates cookies and other data 
used for this cross-site tracking, which means it helps keep a person’s browsing private. 


Criteo responded immediately with an Apple ITP workaround, claiming this situation was little more than 
a game of “cat and mouse”. Criteo suggested it would successfully thwart Apple ITP’s attempt to protect 
user privacy, just as it had thwarted ad blockers and header bidding. Adexchanger best described Criteo’s  
sentiment with a September 21st podcast titled: “Criteo CEO Eric Eichmann Defies Gravity”  


So how exactly does Criteo pull it off? One word buried within a Criteo Japan webpage released September 
20th and promptly deleted September 21st gives us the answer: HSTS (“HTTP Strict Transport Security”). 
Criteo and HSTS are not mentioned in the same sentence anywhere else in the public domain, other than 
in copies of the deleted Criteo Japan webpage shown below (translated version is shown below): 





Original link: https://support.criteosales.com/hc/ja/articles/115012656448?mobile_site=true   


We believe Criteo’s usage of HSTS Super cookies is not only dangerous, but illegal. This would explain 
Criteo’s HSTS coverup. Criteo’s acts of desperation show that Apple’s ITP is a game changer.
Page 6 of 18 
 





Criteo’s usage of HSTS super cookies shows they are desperate and that Apple’s ITP is a game changer 


Criteo and its cheerleaders say that Apple ITP is merely a temporary setback, just as ad blocking and 
header bidding were in recent years. But as they say, “watch what they do, not what they say.” If it is 
indeed business as usual for Criteo, why do the company’s behaviors say otherwise? Specifically: 


1. Why is Criteo resorting to dangerous and (we believe) illegal behaviors, i.e. its usage of HSTS Super 
cookies as its Apple ITP workaround? 


2. Why does Criteo attempt to cover its tracks, by destroying evidence?  


The coverup is worse than the crime: burying the body and removing fingerprints 


Not only did Criteo delete the original Criteo Japan web page, 


 https://support.criteosales.com/hc/ja/articles/115012656448?mobile_site=true   


that mentioned HSTS (the version in the original Japanese is shown below), 





Criteo went the extra mile and somehow deleted the cached version of the original webpage as well (we 
were only able to view the webpage because the cached page was viewable at the time we accessed it): 


https://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:7qLTUYB_SzIJ:https://support.criteosales.co
m/hc/ja/articles/115012656448%3Fmobile_site%3Dtrue+&cd=8&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=ua 


Criteo has (proverbially speaking) removed the dead body AND covered their tracks/wiped fingerprints.  
This shows that the HSTS Super cookie is very important to Criteo. But why? What’s the big deal with 
super cookies, particularly the HSTS super cookie variety?
Page 7 of 18 
 


The HSTS Super cookie is particularly dangerous, as they allow any third party to track users 


The HSTS protocol was not originally designed for surveillance purposes: it was designed to enhance web 
browsing security. It is only by abusing the HSTS cache, can HSTS be used for tracking users and their 
browsing behavior according to security expert Lachlan Kang. The HSTS super cookies are considered to 
be particularly dangerous for Apple Safari users because: 


 Safari users cannot remove them; in fact, they may even be indestructible. (see Zombie Cookie: 
The Tracking Cookie That You Can't Kill) 


 Incognito browser, adblockers, Tor browsers are ineffective against this particular strain of super 
cookies (see Browsing in privacy mode? Super Cookies can track you anyway and HSTS Super 
Cookies by Sam Greenhalgh) 


 Once Criteo has inserted the super cookie, any third party can track users, using the super 
cookie inserted by Criteo. This makes them far more dangerous than standard cookies, as 
standard cookies inserted by Criteo can only be read by Criteo. (see Browsing in privacy mode? 
Super Cookies can track you anyway and HSTS Super Cookies by Sam Greenhalgh) 


 Even if users were to opt out of Criteo tracking in the future, unauthorized third parties can 
continue tracking them.  


The below diagram shows some of the above mentioned points about Super cookies (i.e. zombie cookies): 





Source: https://www.propublica.org/article/zombie-cookie-the-tracking-cookie-that-you-cant-kill 





Companies that resort to dangerous and illegal methods – like super cookies – to sustain profits, are not 
working from a position of strength, but desperation. And desperation often leads to bad judgement, 
and/or fraud. 


Criteo’s usage of HSTS super cookies seems particularly brazen, given that we believe their behavior is 
illegal, which we discuss in greater detail later in this report.
Page 8 of 18 
 


Criteo is hiding details about its Apple ITP workaround not only from users, but its clients as well 


“I don’t think most big name online retailers would risk losing the trust of their customer base by employing 
nefarious tracking mechanisms like this [super cookies]” 


 – Sam Greenhalgh, Security Researcher 


We have shown that Criteo hides details about its Apple ITP workaround from the public, and destroyed 
evidence when Criteo Japan accidentally leaked some minor details about their workaround.  


Gotham City Research believes Criteo clients (i.e. advertisers) have been provided with only little more 
information than the general public, as evidenced by the following email that Criteo sent some clients: 





If the content of the above Criteo email to clients looks familiar, it is because it is nearly identical to the 
Criteo Japan webpage post that was deleted. 


Note that the terms “HSTS” and “super cookies” mean nothing to Chief Marketing Officers (Criteo’s 
clients), as they are not technical experts. It would seem incumbent on Criteo to describe its Apple ITP 
workaround to its clients, in a manner that is digestible for them. Instead, the only clue Criteo leaves them 
is the term “HSTS”. Criteo does not disclose the well documented dangers that super cookies pose, and 
the legal and reputational risks that clients may face.
Page 9 of 18 
 


Gotham City Research believes Criteo has provided its clients with very limited information about its Apple 
ITP workaround for the following reasons: 


 Criteo’s use of the HSTS super cookie is dangerous and in our opinion illegal based on similarities 
we see between Criteo’s behavior today and Turn inc., who settled with the FTC last year for 
abusing super cookies(as discussed in the next section). 


 The clients – advertiers – would not use super cookies themselves to track their customer base, 
as it would threaten their brands’ safety. 


 Criteo’s clients may face legal scrutiny from its customers as a result of the intrusive privacy 
violations resulting from the Criteo super cookies. 


 The value of Criteo’s retargeting solutions may diminish, as anyone – Criteo’s competitors, its 
clients competitors’ can freely use Criteo’s super cookies against them and their clients.
Page 10 of 18 
 


Why Criteo’s use of Super cookies is illegal & on borrowed time 
“It is only by intentional misapplication that HSTS can be exploited to track users.” – Sam Greenhalgh 


Gotham City Research believes Criteo has been hiding details about its Apple ITP workaround – as 
evidenced by Criteo immediately deleting the Criteo Japan webpage that mentioned HSTS –  because the 
HSTS Super cookie solution is particularly dangerous to Apple Safari users and also illegal per US and 
European law as well as recent precedent cases. Specifically, we believe Criteo is in violation of Section 5 
of the FTC Act: 


Section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act (FTC Act) (15 USC §45) prohibits “unfair or 
deceptive acts or practices in or affecting commerce.” 


The legal standards for unfair or deceptive acts or practices include: 








We believe that Criteo’s specific violations of the above described FTC legal standards include:  


 Misrepresentations about blocking “non-cookie technologies” (i.e. super cookies) 
 Misrepresentations about effectiveness of Opt-out mechanism 
 Misrepresentations about user consent 
 Criteo’s behavior and Turn Inc. behavior, as alleged by the FTC, are eerily similar
Page 11 of 18 
 


Criteo’s business practices today resemble those of Turn Inc’s immediately before the FTC cracked down 
on its super cookie practices. What seems to have bothered the FTC about Turn’s behavior, is not only the 
intrusiveness of Turns’ usage of super cookies. It was also the misleading and/or false disclosures 
regarding them. Turn Inc settled with the FTC last year, 2016, after the FTC claimed the following:  





Here are the specific similarities we see between Criteo’s behavior today Turn Inc through 2015 as alleged 
by the FTC:
Page 12 of 18 
 


Misrepresentations about blocking “non-cookie technologies” (i.e. super cookies) 


Criteo claims, per its privacy policy, that users can block the use of “non-cookie technologies” by Criteo 
for advertising purposes simply by clicking on the opt out feature available in the “User Choices” section: 











Gotham City Research believes that this claim is materially false and/or misleading for the following 
reasons: 


 Criteo does not disclose its use of the HSTS super cookies and the dangers this exposes to users; 
 Specifically, Criteo fails to mention that HSTS super cookies may be indestructible; 
 Criteo’s use of super cookies exposes users to being targeted for advertising and/or other 


purposes by any third party, even if users were to successfully opt out from Criteo; 
 Criteo’s claim that opting out is an easy process, “simply by clicking on the opt out feature” is 


contradicted by Criteo’s own disclosure that “that on certain browsers such as Safari, clearing 
web site data can also erase opt out information and will therefore require you to opt out again 
from our services.”
Page 13 of 18 
 


Misrepresentations about effectiveness of Opt-out mechanism 


For users who have willfully and/or accidentally opted in to Criteo ad targeting (Criteo claims that only 
5% of users actually end up seeing the opt out page, which suggests that 95% are accidentally opting in), 
Criteo claims they can adjust their settings if they change their mind, by visiting the following links: 


http://www.Criteo.com/choice 








Or info.criteo.com/control 


`
Page 14 of 18 
 


The opt out links do not work 


Criteo says that to opt-out from tracking the Safari user has to go to info.criteo.com/control or 
criteo.com/choice . Neither links work.  


If you click on criteo.com/choice , you are led here (“the page you’re looking for can’t be found”): 





If you click on info.criteo.com/control , the link opens to a blank screen: 





So it is not clear how Safari users can opt-out of being tracked by super cookies after they “opted in”
Page 15 of 18 
 


Misrepresentations about user consent 


According to its privacy policy, Criteo claims that users will be tracked by non-cookie technologies  “only 
if you have unambiguously accepted our services”: 





Gotham City Research believes that the claim Criteo will only track you via super cookies “only if you have 
unambiguously accepted our services” is materially false and/or misleading for the following reasons: 


 The mere act of continuing to use a Criteo website, by clicking anywhere except the ‘click here’ 
link, is considered consent by Criteo. 


 To its clients, Criteo claims that 95% of users do not even see the tiny, barely visible notice. How 
is a user giving consent, if 95% of them do not see the notice? 





Merely continuing to use a website does not constitute “unambiguous consent”  


Whenever an IOS 11 Apple Safari browser users visit websites using Criteo, merely continuing to use the 
website (i.e. clicking on anywhere except the ‘click here’ link shown below) is considered agreeing to allow 
Criteo to insert super cookies. This does not seem to constitute unambiguous acceptance:  





Also recall, that if the user ‘consents’ (accidentally or otherwise), they get this message: 





And the link where you are told you can “adjust your setting” to opt-out does not even work, as we 
showed earlier.
Page 16 of 18 
 


Users who do not see Criteo’s opt-out message are not giving “unambiguous consent” to Criteo 


Criteo boasts to clients that only 5% of IOS users see the one-time opt-out message: 





If 95% of users do not even see the message, it would seem incorrect to treat 95% as having “opted-in” 
to Criteo ad tracking, via cookie or super cookie. Does not consent require actually seeing the message? 
Criteo does not place transparency and control in the hands of users, contrary to claiming otherwise. 


https://accelerate.criteo.com/hc/en-us/articles/207473609-Criteo-Extended-Browser-Support-EBS-
Page 17 of 18 
 


We believe Criteo’s consent policy is in violation of the GDPR Regulation in Europe (May 2018) 


Gotham City Research believes that coming regulation in Europe (deadline for compliance is May 2018), 
the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), will be as game-changing for Criteo’s business as Apple 
ITP is for the following reasons: 


 We believe Criteo’s consent notifications are in direct violation of the GDPR article 7, recital 32; 


 Fines of up to 4% of worldwide annual revenue. 





Accoding to GDPR, Consent means "any freely given, specific, informed and unambiguous indication of 
the data subject's wishes by which he or she, by a statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies 
agreement to the processing of personal data relating to him or her" 


GDPR text: 


(32) Consent should be given by a clear affirmative act establishing a freely given, specific, 
informed and unambiguous indication of the data subject's agreement to the processing of 
personal data relating to him or her, such as by a written statement, including by electronic 
means, or an oral statement. This could include ticking a box when visiting an internet website, 
choosing technical settings for information society services or another statement or conduct 
which clearly indicates in this context the data subject's acceptance of the proposed processing 
of his or her personal data. Silence, pre-ticked boxes or inactivity should not therefore constitute 
consent. Consent should cover all processing activities carried out for the same purpose or 
purposes. When the processing has multiple purposes, consent should be given for all of them. If 
the data subject's consent is to be given following a request by electronic means, the request 
must be clear, concise and not unnecessarily disruptive to the use of the service for which it is 
provided. 


Up to 4% of revenue in fines: 


5. Infringements of the following provisions shall, in accordance with paragraph 2, be subject to 
administrative fines up to 20 000 000 EUR, or in the case of an undertaking, up to 4 % of the 
total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher     


As we have demonstrated in this section with several examples, Criteo seems like the perfect case study 
for how NOT to comply with the GDPR rules described above.
Page 18 of 18 
 


We wrote to Apple: Apple is working on eliminating this abuse  
We wrote the following message to Apple a few weeks ago: 





2 weeks ago, Apple responded to us, acknowledging Criteo’s abuse and assuring us they were working on 
it: 





You should assume that we have and/or will continue our correspondences with Apple and alert them of 
any further Criteo abuses.
