5/23/2018 GeoTeam's Preliminary NEWN Investigation Commences - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/161256-geoteams-preliminary-newn-investigation-commences 1/4


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


GeoTeam's
Preliminary NEWN
Investigation
Commences
Apr. 5, 2011 1:45 PM ET | Includes: New Energy Systems G…


In light of our recent discussions on New Energy Systems (OTC:NEWN) at
GeoInvesting, we felt it necessary to start a formal investigation into the
company's ownership structure.  To preface our update, we have included a
portion of the Q&A from NEWN's recent year end conference call. 
 
Excerpt from New Energy Systems 4th quarter 2010 conference call:


Dan Lavine (Individual Investor) : Oh, congratulations on a great quarter
and year.  I am new to your story and hold a small position, but would like to
add at current prices.  So excuse my ignorance here, because like I said, I’m
new to NEWN.  Can you please give me some color on the shareholder tenure
with respect to New Power and Kim Fai Solar pre-acquisition [inaudible]?  For
example, have the shareholders at Kim Fai been the same since inception? 
 
Ken Lin (VP, Investor Relations) :   I’m sorry, you mentioned the
shareholder from original three subsidiary we acquired? 
 
Dan Lavine:  Yes, mm-hmm.  The New Power and Kim Fai Solar, pre-
acquisition. 
 
Ken Lin:  Yes, and I’m sorry – what exactly information you want to know
about those shareholders? 
 
Dan Lavine: Well, I guess for example, have the shareholders at Kim Fai been
the same ever since the beginning? 
 



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NEWN

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NEWN
5/23/2018 GeoTeam's Preliminary NEWN Investigation Commences - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/161256-geoteams-preliminary-newn-investigation-commences 2/4


Ken Lin:   For Kim Fai and for those three companies we acquired, those
shareholders, they are still the same shareholders as their original
company. 
 
Dan Lavine:  Okay 
 
Ken Lin:  For example, Kim Fai’s shareholders have eight shareholders, and
those eight shareholders is Kim Fai’s shareholders.  And Anytone—I’m sorry,
Anytone I don’t remember exactly, but Anytone as I remember also have eight
shareholders over there, and that eight shareholders is—they are separated. 
There is no relationship for those shareholders, but they are—they all
remain as the shareholders of each subsidiary. 
 
Dan Lavine:  Okay, thank you.


GeoTeam Update:
The GeoTeam has just obtained information indicating that Kim Fai shareholder
base changed several times before its acquisition by NEWN.  The last
shareholder change before the acquisition by NEWN (Nov. 25, 2010, SAIC
date) was only three months (Aug. 25, 2010, SAIC date) before the
acquisition.   Furthermore, the age of these eight shareholders, who acquired
Kim Fai on Aug. 25, 2010 and sold Kim Fai to NEWN, were fairly very young at
the time of the acquisition.  Furthermore, the age of these latest
shareholders are fairly young, arousing our suspicions that they could not
have been original shareholders:  The age distribution of these eight
shareholders are as follows:


Pre acquisition age distribution of  Kim Fai Shareholders: (8 shareholders of
Kim Fai are from 19 (1992) to 30 (1981) )


one 29 year old (Born 1981) (Xiaowei Wang)
one 27 year old (Born 1983) (Yijie Li)
two 25 year old (Born 1985) (Qiongqiong Wang & Gong Wei)
two 22 year old (Born 1988) (Feng Cheng & Chunfeng Zhang)
one 20 year old (Born 1990) (Qing Xiong)
one 18 year old (Born 1992) (Di Yuan)


None of the above occupy more than 15% shares (6*14%, 9% and
7%).
5/23/2018 GeoTeam's Preliminary NEWN Investigation Commences - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/161256-geoteams-preliminary-newn-investigation-commences 3/4


Investors should begin to ask questions, as this new information clearly
diverges from public statements made in the 2010 year end conference call.
Now we need to ask why


"For Kim Fai and for those three companies we acquired, those shareholders,
they are still the same shareholders as their original company."


We also discovered that three of these eight shareholders (Di Yuan, Qiong
Xiong & Xiaowei Wang) reside in Decheng District, Dezhou City.  This location
coincides with the location of the current legal representative of New Power
(Mr. Xiong Guofu) and the current legal representative of E'Jenie (Ms. Fang
Xuemei).  Two of these young shareholders (Wei Gong & Feng Cheng) appear
to live in Chibi City (county), which is the same city (county) that the current
legal representative of Kim Tai (Mr. Liu Qunli) and current legal representative
of Anytone (Mr. Weihe Yu, the Chairman of NEWN) also seem to reside.


Meanwhile, even though Kim Tai started its business on December 8, 2005, it
only changed its name and business direction to include solar energy
operations after September 21, 2009 which is only one year from the
acquisition deal with NEWN.  At the time of these changes, the two
shareholders of Kim Tai were Wei Gong (one of the eight young shareholders)
(70%) and Weihai Yu (30%).  Weihai Yu and Weihe Yu (the chairman of
NEWN) have the same last and middle names.  Based on the Chinese name
tradition, it is possible that Weihai Yu and Weihe Yu are related (brothers).


Based on the Chinese name tradition, it is possible to assume that
Weihai Yu and Weihe Yu are related.  Thus, we would like the
company to comment on this: 
  
One year later, after these significant changes involving Kim Tai business
dealings, NEWN spent USD 24 million (USD 13 million cash and 11
million restricted share) to acquire a company which appears to have
commenced its solar energy business for only one year, yet claims to generate
significant revenues.


Please Note:


We are still reviewing further details regarding the NEWN story,
including information surrounding past management stock sales.  We are
also conducting a deeper review of PRC filings, originally obtained by our
5/23/2018 GeoTeam's Preliminary NEWN Investigation Commences - The GeoTeam | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/360252-the-geoteam/161256-geoteams-preliminary-newn-investigation-commences 4/4


