Muddy Waters Capital LLC 


info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research: Carson C. Block, Esq. 





These Terms of Use govern current reports published by Muddy Waters Research and supersede any prior Terms of Use for older reports of Muddy Waters 
Research, which you may download from the Muddy Waters Research’s website. 


 
The reports on this website have been prepared by Muddy Waters Capital LLC (“Muddy Waters Capital”).  We refer to Muddy Waters Research and Muddy Waters Capital collectively 
as “Muddy Waters” and individually these entities are referred to as a “Muddy Waters Entity”.  You should assume that, as of the publication date of a Muddy Waters report, 
Muddy Waters Related Persons (possibly along with or through its members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants), Muddy Waters Related Persons clients 
and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors have a short position in one or more of the securities of a Covered Issuer (and/or options, swaps, and other derivatives 
related to one or more of these securities), and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the event that the prices of either equity or debt securities of a Covered Issuer 
decline or appreciate. Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and/or the Muddy Waters Related Persons intend to continue transacting in the securities of Covered Issuers for 
an indefinite period after an initial report on a Covered Person, and such person may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial position and views as stated 
in the research report published by Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital will update any report or 
information on its website to reflect changes in positions that may be held by a Muddy Waters Related Person.  Each report specifies the publisher and owner of that report.  All reports 
are for informational purposes only.  Under no circumstances should any of these reports or any information herein be construed as investment advice, or as an offer to sell or the 
solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or other financial instruments. 


Muddy Waters Research is an online research publication that produces due diligence-based reports on publicly traded securities, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC is an investment 
adviser registered with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The reports are the property of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity that published that report.    This website is 
owned by Muddy Waters Research.  The opinions, information and reports set forth herein are solely attributable to the applicable Muddy Waters Entity and are not attributable to any 
Muddy Waters Related Person (defined below) (other than the applicable Muddy Waters Entity). 


By downloading from, or viewing material on this website, you agree to the following Terms of Use. You agree that use of the research on this website is at your own risk. You (or any 
person you are acting as agent for) agree to hold harmless Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital and its affiliates and related parties, including, but not limited to any 
principals, officers, directors, employees, members, clients, investors, consultants and agents (collectively, the “Muddy Waters Related Persons”) for any direct or indirect losses 
(including trading losses) attributable to any information on this website or in a research report. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any 
investment decision with respect to securities of the issuers covered herein (each, a “Covered Issuer”) or any other financial instruments that reference the Covered Issuer or any 
securities issued by the Covered Issuer. You represent that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion on this website. You 
further agree that you will not communicate the contents of reports and other materials on this site to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these Terms of Use. 
If you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website on your own behalf, you agree to and shall be bound by these Terms of Use. If 
you access this website, download or receive the contents of reports or other materials on this website as an agent for any other person, you are binding your principal to these same 
Terms of Use. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. Neither Muddy Waters Research nor any Muddy Waters Related Person (including Muddy Waters Capital) 
are offering, selling or buying any security to or from any person through this website or reports on this website. Muddy Waters Research is affiliated with Muddy Waters Capital. 
Muddy Waters Capital is an investment adviser with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and is not registered as investment adviser in any other jurisdiction. Muddy Waters 
Capital does not render investment advice to anyone unless it has an investment adviser-client relationship with that person evidenced in writing. You understand and agree that Muddy 
Waters Capital does not have any investment advisory relationship with you or does not owe fiduciary duties to you. Giving investment advice requires knowledge of your financial 
situation, investment objectives, and risk tolerance, and Muddy Waters Capital has no such knowledge about you. 


If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial 
Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO (each a “Permitted Recipient”).  In 
relation to the United Kingdom, the research and materials on this website are being issued only to, and are directed only at, persons who are Permitted Recipients and, without 
prejudice to any other restrictions or warnings set out in these Terms of Use, persons who are not Permitted Recipients must not act or rely on the information contained in any of the 
research or materials on this website.  


The research and reports presented on this website express the opinion of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity only.  Reports are based on generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s due diligence and analytical process. To the best of the applicable Muddy Waters Entity’s ability and belief, 
all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources that the applicable Muddy Waters Entity believe to be accurate and reliable, and 
who are not insiders or connected persons of the Covered Issuers or who may otherwise owe a fiduciary duty, duty of confidentiality or any other duty to the Covered Issuer (directly or 
indirectly). However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or implied.  With respect to their respective research reports, Muddy Waters 
Research and Muddy Waters Capital makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to 
be obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and 
neither Muddy Waters Research nor Muddy Waters Capital undertakes to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  


In no event shall Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons be liable for any claims, losses, costs or damages of any kind, including direct, 
indirect, punitive, exemplary, incidental, special or, consequential damages, arising out of or in any way connected with any information on this website. This limitation of liability 
applies regardless of any negligence or gross negligence of Muddy Waters Research, Muddy Waters Capital or any Muddy Waters Related Persons. You accept all risks in relying on 
the information on this website. 


You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information (whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, 
or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained research published by Muddy 
Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link and agreeing to the Terms 
of Use. You further agree that any dispute between you and Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates arising from or related to this report and / or the Muddy Waters Research website 
or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to 
submit to the personal and exclusive jurisdiction of the state and federal courts located in San Francisco, California and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, 
given that Muddy Waters Research and its affiliates are based in San Francisco, California. The failure of Muddy Waters Research or Muddy Waters Capital to exercise or enforce any 
right or provision of these Terms of Use shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. You agree that each Muddy Waters Related Person is a third-party beneficiary to these 
Terms of Use. If any provision of these Terms of Use is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give 
effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Use remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law 
and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related to this website or the material on this 
website must be filed within one (1) year after the occurrence of the alleged harm that gave rise to such claim or cause of action, or such claim or cause of action be forever barred.
Page 1 of 7   


TAL Education: A Real Business With Fake Financials 
Part II 


 
Comment to Investors 
 
TAL’s reaction to our 70-page exposé is stunning and affirming.  Its response, which could have 
been typed out while sitting on the toilet, has wholly failed to address our conclusions that a) its 
reported profits are fraudulently inflated, b) it engaged in two sets of non-substantive 
transactions, including having reported a divestment that did not actually occur, c) it likely 
diverted funds through a straw party, and d) is covering up a more substantial compression of its 
core business operating margins.  The failure to respond in our view evidences utter contempt for 
investors and the U.S. markets. 
 
TAL’s directors claim to have carried out an investigation into the issues raised in our report 
within 12 days.  Their statement is confined to only 51 words discussing the investigation.1  
Given there has been no attempt to convince investors there was any investigation, it’s hard to 
even label this one a “sham”.  Investors should be under no illusion that this statement is 
anything other than a long, fat middle finger extended their way.  This behavior underscores our 
point that managements and directors in China see no disincentive to steal money from U.S. 
investors – it is a “heads I win, tails you lose” bet for them. 
 
We began our series discussing two transactions where not only is the evidence of fraud is, in our 
view, clear and convincing; but, the impacts can be quantified.  From the outside, fraud is usually 
difficult to quantify – even analysts who specialize in detecting fraud usually struggle to estimate 
its impact.  Based on feedback, we believe there was some misunderstanding by investors about 
the impacts of the fraud we detailed in Part I.  The fraudulent inflation was not limited to below-
the-line (i.e., non-operating) income inflation.  Deferred revenue without matching expenses is 
an above-the-line profit inflation technique, which we illustrate in a reported vs. estimated real 
margin comparison table on page 3 of the initial report.   
 
We continue our series of reports with a look at another transaction with a quantifiable above-
the-line impact, Firstleap.2  We focus on Firstleap second also because it is a bit of a brainteaser 
– we invite investors to try to reconcile to the numbers TAL reported.  Taken together, Parts I 
and II show the variety of levers available to TAL to fraudulently inflate profits – all three 
transactions are obscure transactions to which investors seemed to pay scant attention at the time, 
and yet they have each made material contributions to profit overstatements.   
 
Our next report in the series will detail our conclusion that TAL commits fraud in the financials 
for its core Peiyou business.  The Peiyou fraud is more difficult to quantify, but our research 
suggests fraudulent overstatement of Peiyou revenue of approximately 25% to 30%.  Future 


																																																								
1 “The Internal Audit team as directed by and under the supervision of the Audit Committee of the Board of 
Directors (the "Audit Committee") uncovered no evidence that supports the allegations mentioned. The Audit 
Committee has reviewed the result of the investigation and concurred with the conclusion that the allegations were 
baseless.” 
2 Estimated profit and margins in Part I already include adjustments for Firstleap. 



https://www.nasdaq.com/press-release/tal-education-group-issues-response-to-deceptive-short-seller-report-20180614-00056

https://www.nasdaq.com/press-release/tal-education-group-announces-results-of-internal-review-20180626-00331
Page 2 of 7   


reports will detail fundamental weakness in Peiyou, and other reasons that the real portions of 
TAL’s profits are not sustainable. 
 
 
Firstleap: Another Fraudulent Accounting Lever 
  
Like Shunshun and Guangzhou One-on-One, Firstleap was one of TAL’s major investments in 
FY2016 and FY2017.  Management claimed deferred revenue of $45.09 million at the time it 
acquired Firstleap, which is a tutoring institute for pupils ages 2-15.  That number strikes us as 
steep.  Join us as we use generous assumptions to see how close to $45 million we can get. 
 
First, Facts 
 
On January 22, 2016, TAL reported that it completed the acquisition of 100% of Firstleap.  The 
purported purchase price of $46.58 million, paid for partially with TAL common stock, gave 
TAL a network of 66 learning centers, of which 30 were self-operated and 36 were franchised, as 
well as $20.94 million in cash.3 
 
Picking over TAL’s blogs shows tuition is Rmb 15,000 for 8 months, with payment due at 
enrollment.4  The schedule is rolling, so students can enroll any time.5  On the Q2 call, CFO 
Rong Luo noted that total enrollment as of the end of August 2015 was “around” 20,000 
students, while trailing twelve-month revenue was $30 million.6  Let’s say Firstleap had 21,000 
students—again, we’re just giving TAL the benefit of the doubt. 
 
We also have Firstleap’s onshore historical revenues, expenses, and gross profit.  Much of the 
financials for Firstleap’s network of learning centers flowed through the Beijing VIE, Beijing 
Lebai Educational Consulting Co., Ltd (BJ Lebai), and we show these in the table below. 
 
 
 
 


																																																								
3 TAL FY2016 20-F, p. F-48 
4 These are recent tuition rates, which were higher than prior rates and are thus more favorable to TAL.  Per blogs on 
TAL’s jzb.com website (http://www.jzb.com/bbs/thread-5862433-1-1.html), most comments were that ¥15,000 was 
required for 8 months. 
5 Per calls to Firstleap’s customer service line. 
6 TAL FY2016 Q2 conference call, CFO Rong Luo: “Firstleap now operates 66, double 6, learning centers in 25 
cities.  Of these, 36 centers are self-operating and 30 are franchise.  The numbers of students in August 2015 was 
around 20,000.  During the period from September 1, 2014, to August 31, 2015, all the tier revenue per book was 
around USD 30 million, 3-0.  Firstleap is a lossmaking at the moment.  With cross-selling on our platform, we can 
help to lower down the new customer acquisition costs for Firstleap.  We expect this business to become profitable 
within 2 to 3 years, with a profit margin of between 10% to 20%.”
Page 3 of 7   


	 	
 
And it’s Gone 
 
Next, we need to make some estimates to obtain a reasonable deferred revenue number for 
Firstleap.  As in the table above, from CY2014 to CY2015, Firstleap’s gross revenue grew 
52.8%, while TAL’s filings show total revenue growth of 42.9% in FY2016.7  Therefore, it 
seems more than fair to TAL to assume 60% run-rate enrollment growth for Firstleap in August 
2015.8  If we increment enrollment by 4% every month—a CAGR of 60.1%—we get 25,265 
Firstleap students as of January 22, 2016.   
 


 
 
If Firstleap collected tuition of roughly 15,000 Rmb from each of the 25,265 students enrolled, 
that means it received prepayments of 379 million Rmb, or about $58 million, from those 
students.  Let’s recap what we have so far: 
 


 
 
However, out of the total prepayments collected, a significant chunk had already been 
amortized.9  To get at the percentage of deferred revenue remaining, let us look at eight generic 
																																																								
7 TAL FY2016 20-F, p. 87 
8 This is also well above TAL’s 42.9% revenue growth in FY2016.  Source: TAL 2016 20-F, p. 3 
9 The tuition for the Firstleap classes is collected in advance.  The term is eight months, but a rolling enrollment 
policy is in place.  Therefore, new students can sign up at almost any time.  If no new class is starting, they will
Page 4 of 7   


monthly cohorts that have month-on-month enrollment growth of 4% and pay a fixed tuition.  
We want to see what portion of the total tuition paid by these cohorts remains as deferred 
revenue.  The tuition rate and starting student population do not matter, so we can choose round 
numbers. 
 


 
 
As we can see above, out of the prepayments collected, only about 59% remain after a full 
student cycle.  Applying that fraction to the 379 million Rmb in prepayments from before gets us 
to about 223 million Rmb of deferred revenue, or $34 million.  Uh-oh: that is 25% below the $45 
million TAL booked.  But we’re not done yet. 
 
There is a haircut we need to apply.  It is a dry but important one—FASB section ASC 805.  
According to ASC 805, at the time of an acquisition, the acquired company’s deferred revenue is 
no longer recorded at the amortized value of the cash received.10  Instead, it is booked at fair 
value, which is equal to the acquirer’s future costs to fulfill the obligations, plus a reasonable 
margin that a third party might charge.  For TAL, this would just be the marginal cost of 
delivering additional lessons; sales, marketing, G&A, and other expenses already incurred would 
be excluded.  Let us use the Firstleap Beijing VIE financials from before to see what sort of a 
cost structure is reasonable.   Gross costs, meaning cost of goods sold and sales tax, were 52% 
and 64% of revenue in 2015 and 2016, respectively.  Let us assume that 60% of revenue was 
consumed by the marginal cost of service provision as of the acquisition date.11  After putting a 
reasonable margin of 10% on top, 70% of deferred revenue is matched to costs.  In other words, 
that implies a mandatory 30% discount to pre-acquisition deferred revenue.  We reproduce the 
figures and math below. 
 


																																																								
normally be placed into a current class.  As a result, deferred revenue as at January 22, 2016 will be a combination 
of prepayment balances remaining from prior and new enrollments. 
10 The deferred revenue lost due to the “haircut” is never recorded post-acquisition.  
http://www.globalviewadvisors.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/FVLE-Issue-59-Deferred-Revenue-Valuation-for-
Accounting-Standards-Codification-805-Article-by-Ray-Rath-Feb-Mar16.pdf, 
https://www.journalofaccountancy.com/issues/2016/apr/deferred-revenue-accounting-rule-in-acquisition.html 
http://holtzmanpartners.com/where-did-my-revenue-go/, 
11 This is favorable to TAL, as lower gross margins mean a smaller cut to the deferred revenue balance.
Page 5 of 7   


 
 
After we make this final adjustment to the 223 million Rmb deferred revenue balance from 
before, we get 156 million Rmb of deferred revenue at fair value—or, just $24 million.  Based on 
the calculations we made, TAL overstated Firstleap’s deferred revenue by 90%.  Almost half 
of the $45 million TAL claimed was fake.  We bring together our findings and assumptions 
below:
Page 6 of 7   


You Just Read the Charitable Interpretation 
 
There is a twist.  We assumed that the ~20,000 Firstleap students mentioned by TAL’s CFO 
belonged only to Firstleap’s self-operated network.  If that number he cited was inclusive of the 
franchises, which constitute 55% of Firstleap’s centers but generate little revenue, then the 
deferred revenue overstatement is even more hideous.12  Let us dig in. 
 
We assume that the $30 million in revenue comes only from self-operated centers.  Using the 
same 60% annual enrollment growth as before, we need to figure out how many students were 
enrolled at Firstleap’s owned centers of August 2015.  Before August 2015, tuition had been 
1,375 Rmb per month.13  If we assume the 12 monthly cohorts through August paid 1,375 Rmb 
while enrollment grew 4% each month, we can figure out the size of the student body needed to 
bring in $30 million.  At August 2015, that number was about 14,435.14  Here is the math: 
 


 
 
Now that we have the number of students as of August 2015, we can apply the same 4% monthly 
growth rate as before to obtain Firstleap’s enrollment as of the acquisition date: 17,367. 
 


																																																								
12 Based on a 2013 article we reviewed, it seems that Firstleap’s revenue from franchisees might be only 5% of their 
total sales; to be company-favorable, we exclude any franchisee revenue contribution here.  
http://learning.sohu.com/20131021/n388611760.shtml  
13 We use the lower pre-acquisition tuition because it is company-favorable.  A blog post stated that the tuition 
charged in August of 2015 was 11,000 rmb for 8 months after the application of a 1000-Rmb discount.  (Source: 8
个月，128个课时，一周上两次，一次一个半点，算两个课时。收费 1万 1千多（优惠 1千后），也就是 1
次课 1个半点 170块钱。) 
14 To be favorable to the company, as February of 2015 was the month of Chinese New Year, no revenue was 
calculated; however, we continued to apply the CAGR to increase the enrollments.
Page 7 of 7   





If we once again assume an eight-month tuition of 15,000 RMB, then carry out the same deferred 
revenue adjustments as we did before, the fair value of Firstleap’s deferred revenue comes out to 
$16 million.  This is an overstatement of over 175%.  Under these conditions, actual deferred 
revenue would be just over a third of what TAL recorded.15 
 


 
 
 
Conclusion 
 
The deferred revenue in the Firstleap acquisition appears to be inflated by 2x to 3x or more.  
Since TAL claimed the $45.09 million in deferred revenues upon acquisition in January 2016, 
most, if not substantially all, of the inflation of $21 to $29 million or more would have flowed 
through the FY2017 income statement.  


																																																								
15 If the lower tuition rate of Rmb 11,000 were applied, it would have driven the estimated fair value of deferred 
revenue at January 22, 2016 down by another ~25%.
