CONFIDENTIAL | 1


ENPHASE ENERGY, INC.
NASDAQ: ENPH 


TARGET PRICE: $1.01


Prescience Point Reiterates Strong Sell Recommendation On Additional Red Flags Of Accounting Impropriety
On July 25, 2018, Prescience Point published a research paper (the “Initiation Report”) on Enphase Energy (“ENPH” or “the company”). In our Initiation Report,
we concluded that ENPH's financial results since Q3 2017 have been materially inflated by manipulative, and potentially improper, accounting practices that
have become increasingly severe with each passing quarter.


ENPH continues to hold our interest for the following reasons, each of which we thoroughly discuss in our Follow-Up Report:


Our analysis of ENPH's Q2'18 results shows a continued increase in the severity of manipulative accounting practices to inflate financial performance


Management tried to explain away some of the anomalies and discrepancies in ENPH's financial results we had pointed out in our Initiation Report. As
we show, management's explanations in some cases conflict with statements previously made on the record and in other cases lack in credibility


Despite the use of aggressive and potentially improper accounting practices to inflate financial performance, ENPH still missed Q2 consensus
estimates and whiffed on guidance. The 12.9% and 8.9% YoY decline in ENPH’s Q2’18 inverter volume and adjusted revenue, respectively, indicate that
its business is deteriorating at a faster pace than we initially thought


According to sources, disgraced former SunEdison CEO Ahmad Chatila is currently working for ENPH. ENPH appears to have adopted many of the same
questionable practices which ultimately led to SUNE's downfall


We hope that current and future investors and creditors familiarize themselves with the risks we have addressed and take immediate action to preserve the
value of their holdings.



https://www.presciencepoint.com/research/research-archives/enphase-energy/
CONFIDENTIAL | 2


Disclaimer


This research report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are based upon pub licly available information, and all of which 
are set out in this research report.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any for ecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose 
only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report ma y include forward looking statements, 
expectations, and projections.  You should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Prescience 
Point Capital Management’s (“Prescience Point”) control. This report should only be considered in its entirety. Each section should be read in the context of the entire 
report, and no section, paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its authors to stand alone or to be interpreted in isol ation without reference to the rest of the 
report. The section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the detailed statements of opinions in 
their respective sections.   This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point’s rese arch is at your own risk.  You should do your 
own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein.


You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point (possibly along with or through o ur members, partners, affiliates, employees, 
and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short ca ll options of the stock) covered herein, including 
without limitation Enphase Energy (“ENPH”), and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any 
report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial 
recommendation. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer 
would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and d oes not omit to state material facts necessary to 
make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurat e and reliable, and who are not insiders or 
connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the i ssuer, or to any other person or entity that 
was breached by the transmission of information to Prescience Point.  However, Prescience Point recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of 
ENPH or other insiders of ENPH that has not been publicly disclosed by ENPH. Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any 
kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, tim eliness, or completeness of any such 
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use
CONFIDENTIAL | 3


Prescience Point  Reiterates Strong Sel l  On ENPH,  Recent Developments Further  
Indicate That  I ts  Reported F inancials  Cannot Be Rel ied Upon 


In this report, we present seven additional red flags which have emerged since the release of our Initiation Report on July 25th


1) Q2 Results Appear To Have Been Significantly Inflated Yet Again By Improper Deferred Revenue Accounting Practices


2) ENPH Reported Another Anomalous YoY Increase In Revenue Per Inverter In Q2 2018, In Our View, Confirming That Revenue 
Was Significantly Inflated


3) Management Has Provided Three Different Explanations For ENPH’s Anomalous Revenue Per Inverter Increase, None Of 
Which We Find Credible


4) Q2 Revenue Was Further Inflated By A Questionable Milestone Payment, Which Was Suspiciously Booked At A 100% Gross 
Margin


5) Management Could Not Credibly Explain The $6.3M Shortfall In Its Beginning Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Balance; A Forensic 
Accounting Firm Agreed With Our Assessment


6) According To Sources, Disgraced Former SunEdison CEO Ahmad Chatila Is Currently Working For ENPH


7) Q2 Results Indicate That ENPH’s Business Is Deteriorating At A Faster Rate Than We Initially Thought
CONFIDENTIAL | 4


Recognized Deferred Revenue: Amount In Excess Of / (Lower Than) Billings


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.  Prescience Point estimates.


($1.0) ($1.1) ($2.7)
($0.8)


$0.1 


($1.6)($2.2)($1.6) ($2.4) ($2.6)
($2.1)


($2.5)


($4.3)
($2.3)


($2.2)($2.5)($1.4) ($2.2)
($1.4)($0.3)


$7.5 


$5.6 


($6.0)


($4.0)


($2.0)


$0.0


$2.0


$4.0


$6.0


$8.0


$10.0


Red F lag #1: Q2 Results  Appear To Have Been Signif icant ly  Inf lated Yet  Again By 
Improper Deferred Revenue Accounting Pract ices


Our research indicates that ENPH’s Q2 2018 results, just as in Q1 2018, were significantly inflated by deferred revenue accou nting shenanigans


Clear evidence of this can be seen in the large decline in its deferred revenue balance – In Q2 2018, the company’s deferred revenue balance 
declined by $5.6m, meaning that ENPH recognized $5.6m more deferred Envoy revenue than what it actually billed in the quarter


As shown in the graph below, Q1 2018 and Q2 2018 are the only quarters over the past 5 ½ years in which recognized deferred r evenue has 
significantly exceeded billings.  We do not believe this is a coincidence.  Instead, we believe that the company’s seemingly improper deferred 
revenue accounting practices initiated in Q1 2018 continued in Q2 2018


Q2 2018 Recognized Deferred Revenue vs. Billings


Q2'18


Beginning Deferred Revenue Balance $115.7


Ending Deferred Revenue Balance $110.1


Change In Deferred Revenue Balance ($5.6)


Recognized Deferred Revenue, Amount In Excess Of Billings $5.6
CONFIDENTIAL | 5


Revenue Per Inverter - YoY Growth


Source: ENPH earnings reports.


(5.9%) 
(5.9%) 


(10.5%) 


(4.8%) 


(11.5%) 
(13.3%) 


(17.0%) 


(8.9%) 


(12.9%) 


(16.3%) 


(5.8%) 
(7.3%) 


(9.0%) 


(3.1%) (4.4%) (5.0%) 


19.9% 
16.6% 


(20.0%)


(15.0%)


(10.0%)


(5.0%)


--


5.0%


10.0%


15.0%


20.0%


Red F lag #2: ENPH Reported Another Anomalous YoY Increase In  Revenue Per Inverter  
In  Q2 2018,  In  Our View,  Conf irming That  Revenue Was Signif icant ly  Inf lated


In Q2 2018, ENPH’s revenue per inverter once again increased an unusually large amount, this time by 16.6% YoY.  We believe t his large increase in 
revenue per inverter amounts to further proof that the company’s results in Q2 2018, just as in Q1 2018, were significantly i nflated


As detailed in our Initiation Report, given that pricing for MLPE components typically decline around 5% - 10% per year, such large increases in revenue 
per inverter should not occur absent accounting shenanigans.  This is clearly illustrated by the fact that, prior to Q1 2018, ENPH’s revenue per inverter 
had declined in every single quarter dating back to Q1 2014
CONFIDENTIAL | 6


Red F lag #3: Management Has Provided Three Different  Explanat ions For  ENPH’s 
Anomalous Revenue Per Inverter  Increase ,  None Of Which We Find Credible


ENPH Management, Q1 2018 Earnings Call:


Total net revenue per DC watt increased by 8% in the fourth quarter of 2017, largely as a result of changes in product 
mix…for Q1 '18, for example, our pricing was flat. There has been not much change. 


Explanation #1


ENPH Management, Q2 2018 Earnings Call:


Basically in the last four to five quarters what has happened is, because of our excellent pricing management we have 
gradually have transitioned from to few big accounts and more of a long tail accounts. Because of that our average price 
per microinverter has gone up nearly by 10% to 15%


Explanation #2


ENPH Q2 2018 10-Q:


We sold 675,000 microinverter units in the three months ended June 30, 2018, as compared to 775,000 units in the same 
period in 2017. The impact of the lower sales volume was more than offset by an increase in average selling price per 
microinverter due to the transition to our IQ series of microinverters .


Explanation #3


Management has puzzlingly provided three different explanations for why ENPH’s revenue per inverter / revenue per watt has increased by such 


an unusually large amount over the past two quarters.  We believe that management’s inability to coherently answer such a simple and important 


question about its business supports our assertion that ENPH’s financial results are fabricated
CONFIDENTIAL | 7


Red F lag #3: Management Has Provided Three Different  Explanat ions For  ENPH’s 
Anomalous Revenue Per Inverter  Increase ,  None Of Which We Find Credible  (Cont ’d)


The explanations that management has provided for ENPH’s revenue per inverter increase are both conflicting and not credible


Source Explanation For Increase In Revenue Per Inverter Our Comments Our Verdict


ENPH Management,


Q1 2018 Earnings Call


During ENPH's Q1 2018 earnings call, former CFO Bert Garcia 


attributed the revenue per inverter increase to an increase in 


% of non-inverter product sales.  During a subsequent call in 


May, he clarified that the increase was specifically due to a 


sharp uptick in cables & accessories sales


As detailed in our Initiation Report, sales of cables & 


accessories would have had to increase by an estimated 303% 


to cause the 20% YoY increase in rev per inverter reported in 


Q1'18.  Given that distributors purchase the components of a 


microinverter system together rather than separately, such a 


large uptick does not appear possible


NOT CREDIBLE


ENPH Management,


Q2 2018 Earnings Call


During ENPH's Q2 2018 earnings call, Mr. Kothandaraman 


attributed the revenue per inverter increase to a greater % of 


long-tail customers over the past "four to five" quarters.  He 


claimed that, because long-tail installers purchase 


microinverters at a premium to larger installers, this has 


resulted in a 10% - 15% increase in ENPH's price per 


microinverter


Mr. Kothandaraman's explanation does not hold weight 


because it 1) directly contradicts management's statement 


during its prior earnings call that pricing was flat YoY in Q1'18, 


2) implies an unrealistically high turnover in ENPH's customer 


base, and 3) implies that long-tail installers are purchasing 


microinverters at an unrealistically high premium which is far 


in excess of the 10% - 15% overall increase in pricing cited


NOT CREDIBLE


Q2 2018 10-Q


On pg. 25 of its Q2 2018 10-Q, ENPH attributed the revenue per 


inverter increase to an increase in price per microinverter, 


driven by an increasing % of sales from its newer generation 


IQ series


According to several solar distributors, ENPH's IQ series 


microinverters are sold at a lower price than its prior 


generation microinverters.  Thus, ENPH's claim that an 


increase in sales of IQ series caused an increase in price per 


microinverter makes zero sense.  If anything, this should have 


caused its price per microinverter to decline meaningfully


NOT CREDIBLE
CONFIDENTIAL | 8


Red F lag #4: Q2 Revenue Was Further  Inf lated By A Quest ionable Mi lestone 
Payment ,  Which Was Suspiciously  Booked At  A 100% Gross Margin


In Q2 2018, ENPH reported that it received a $2.0m milestone payment for customization work that it performed for a IQ8 custo mer / partner


Based on the evidence, we suspect that this milestone payment may be another lever that ENPH is using to inflate its financia l results


Consider that, as disclosed during ENPH’s Q2 2018 earnings call, this payment was recognized at a 100% gross margin.  This, a t the very least, 
seems highly aggressive from an accounting perspective as ENPH certainly will not be selling the microinverters it is customi zing for its partner at a 
100% margin


Management’s evasiveness when pressed by analysts for more detail on the milestone payment and partnership is also concerning :


Analyst #1: Great, shifting gears back to the milestone payments, I know it's a 100% margin now $2 million in the guide for Q3, suggesting $2 


million for Q4 as well. But can you give us a little more color on the business arrangement there?


ENPH Management: Right. Yes, this - well we can’t say too many things about the specific partner…


Analyst #1: Can you give us a little bit of color of what kind of partner this might be, is it a utility, is it a government or is it - what's the category of 


partner that this might represent?


ENPH Management: …the answer is no. I cannot give you


Analyst #2: Well, let me just follow up on Phil may be ask a little differently. This relationship would not necessarily entail some type of limited 


preferred supplier agreement because of their early investment would it?


ENPH Management: We're not prepared to talk about the arrangement with our suppliers, I mean with our consumers right now
CONFIDENTIAL | 9


Red F lag #5: Management Could Not Credibly  Explain The $6.3M Shortfal l  In  I ts  
Beginning Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Balance;  A Forensic  Accounting F irm Agreed 
With Our Assessment


ENPH reported that its beginning Q1 2018 deferred revenue balance, pro forma for ASC 606 changes, was $116.8m.  However, as d etailed in our 
Initiation Report, our analysis indicated that it should have been $6.3m higher at $123.1m


Based on this and other discrepancies in its financial statements and disclosures, we concluded that ENPH had improperly and prematurely 
recognized $6.3m of deferred revenue in Q1 2018


During its Q2 2018 earnings call, ENPH tried to explain away the $6.3m shortfall in its beginning Q1 2018 deferred revenue ba lance by claiming that 
it was due to a $6.4m invoice receivables adjustment (Note: ENPH quantified the discrepancy as being $6.4m rather than $6.3m)


However, the ASC 606 adjustments disclosed in ENPH’s Q1 2018 10Q do not include an adjustment to its receivables balance.  Th us, we believe that 
management’s explanation is clearly bogus


What ENPH Tells Investors…


So these transactions that we booked basically the $6.4 
million that you referred to did not impact the P&L nor 
cash…we took the, what we call it an invoice receivable 
balance which is an asset seen on the books and against 
that, we offset it against the deferred revenue account on 
the books


(Source: CFO Eric Branderiz, ENPH Q2’18 Earnings Call)


…Is Not Reflected In The ASC 606 Adjustments Disclosed 
In Its Q1’18 10Q:


???
CONFIDENTIAL | 10


Red F lag #5: Management Could Not Credibly  Explain The $6.3M Shortfal l  In  I ts  
Beginning Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Balance;  A Forensic  Accounting F irm Agreed With 
Our Assessment (Cont ’d)


On its Q2’2018 Conference Call on 07/31/18, Enphase indicated the $6.4 million “gap” in the Q4’2017 pro forma adjusted deferred 


revenue balance and the beginning deferred revenue balance (as of 01/01/18) in the Q1’2018 deferred revenue rollforward was “purely 


a balance sheet transaction” and related to an “invoice receivable” asset that offset the deferred revenue balance.  From an accounting 


perspective, it’s possible to book deferred revenue (i.e. credit) with a corresponding receivable (i.e. debit), but in our experience this 


doesn’t happen very often.  Generally, deferred revenue is booked when a Company actually receives cash.  Moreover, the ASC 606 


adjustments provided in the Company’s Q1’2018 10Q do not show that any adjustments were made to accounts receivable; the only asset 


adjusted was deferred costs.  As a result, we are skeptical about the Company’s explanation as the commentary on the Conference Call is 


not supported by the adjustments provided in the Company’s financial statements. 


(Source: Forensic Accountant Report, 8/2/2018)


We asked a forensic accounting firm to assess the validity of management’s explanation for the $6.3m shortfall in its deferre d revenue balance


The firm agreed with our assessment that ENPH’s explanation did not add up as it was not supported by the actual adjustments made to the 
company’s financial statements
CONFIDENTIAL | 11


Red F lag #6: According To Sources ,  Disgraced Former SunEdison CEO Ahmad Chati la
Is  Current ly  Working For  ENPH


We recently received word from an individual in the solar space that Ahmad Chatila – disgraced former SunEdison CEO and architect of the largest 
US bankruptcy of 2016 – is currently an executive or consultant at ENPH:


Another individual appeared to confirm this in a comment on Seeking Alpha from August 2017:
CONFIDENTIAL | 12


Red F lag #6: According To Sources ,  Disgraced Former SunEdison CEO Ahmad Chati la
Is  Current ly  Working For  ENPH (Cont ’d)


The involvement of Mr. Chatila, who is purportedly close to Mr. Kothandaraman as the two previously worked together at Cypress Semiconductor, 


may explain why ENPH appears to have adopted the same questionable and ultimately destructive path as SUNE


The Enphase Story Is Following The Same Destructive Path As SunEdison **
Enphase SunEdison Comments


Use of highly questionable 


accounting practices


• ENPH appears to have used manipulative and seemingly improper 


accounting practices which have materially inflated its financial results


• SUNE was investigated by the SEC for potentially exaggerating its liquidity, 


and its former CEO Ahmad Chatila was sued for providing potentially 


misleading information to shareholders


Value destructive deals


• ENPH's recently announced deal with SPWR is an incredibly value 


destructive transaction, in our view, as it paid ~34.4x EBIT for a limited, five-


year supply agreement.  ENPH has seemingly misrepresented the true 


economics of this agreement by providing overly rosy and misleading Non-


GAAP projections   


• SUNE was known for its growth at any cost acquisition strategy which 


ultimately sunk the company.  SUNE was also criticized for allegedly 


misleading shareholders regarding the true economics of its deals


Overly promotional management


• ENPH frequently issues fluff press releases and makes questionable 


comments seemingly for purpose of pumping up its share price.  For example, 


in a recent GTM article, ENPH's VP of Marketing stated that ENPH's share 


price was "going to go up — higher. Quote me on that. To the moon!"


• Ahmad Chatila was known for constantly pumping SUNE, and at one point 


made the brash prediction that SUNE would someday be worth more than 


$350 Billion


Overly bullish / clueless Wall 


Street analysts


• The majority of SUNE analysts had a Buy rating on its stock just prior to its 


eventual collapse


• The majority of ENPH analysts currently have a Buy rating on its stock.  


These analysts have completely whiffed on identifying the issues outlined in 


our reports


** Reflects Prescience Point Research Opinions
CONFIDENTIAL | 13


Red F lag #7 : Q2 Results  Indicate That  ENPH’s Business Is  Deter iorat ing At  A Faster  
Rate Than We Init ia l ly  Thought


From FY 2014 to FY 2017, ENPH’s reported revenue declined by 17.5% from $343.9m to $283.6m as the company has ceded a signifi cant amount of 
market share to SEDG’s more cost effective solution over the past few years


In our Initiation Report, we concluded that ENPH’s business was likely to continue to deteriorate due to the recent entrance of Huawei and other well-
capitalized competitors into the space, as well as what looks to be a much less favorable industry environment for MLPE provi ders going forward 


Based on ENPH’s recent Q2 results and weak Q3 guidance, it appears that its business is deteriorating at a faster rate than e ven we initially thought


After excluding the impact of its deferred revenue accounting shenanigans and recent milestone payment, ENPH’s adjusted reven ue declined by 
8.6% YoY from $74.7m in Q2 2017 to $68.3m in Q2 2018.  During that same timeframe, its inverter volume declined by 12.9% from 775K in 675K


ENPH’s Q3 2018 revenue guidance of $76m - $82m was meaningfully lower than consensus of $84.2m, and includes an additional $2m m ilestone 
payment.  Pro forma for the exclusion of this milestone payment, ENPH’s adjusted Q3 2018 revenue guidance was $74m - $80m which, at the 
midpoint, is 8.5% or $7.2m lower than consensus


Inverter Volume and Revenue: Q2 2018 vs Q2 2017


($ in millions) Q2'17 Q2'18


Reported Inverter Volume 775,000 675,000


YoY Decrease In Reported Inverter Volume (12.9%)


Reported Revenue $74.7 $75.9


(-) Inflation From Deferred Revenue $0.0 ($5.6)


(-) Milestone Payment $0.0 ($2.0)


PP-Adjusted Revenue $74.7 $68.3


YoY Decrease In PP-Adjusted Revenue (8.6%)


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.  Prescience Point estimates.


Consensus vs. Management Guidance


($ in millions) Q3'18


Consensus Revenue Estimate $84.2


Revenue Guidance (Midpoint) $79.0


(-) Milestone Payment ($2.0)


PP-Adjusted Revenue Guidance $77.0


PP-Adjusted Revenue Guidance, Discount To Consensus Estimate (8.5%)


Source: ENPH earnings reports and filings with the SEC.  Prescience Point estimates.
