On April 5, 2017, Prescience Point published a research paper (the “Initiation Report”) on Celadon 


Group (“CGI” or “the company”). The report presented compelling evidence that CGI is fabricating 


its SEC financial statements and that shareholder value has been unsuspectedly siphoned out of the 


company. We believe the company’s profits and TBV are highly overstated in its SEC filings and 


that CGI is at the precipice of bankruptcy.    





In this report, we present troubling, NEW information, obtained through SEC FOIA requests, which 


confirms that CGI is the subject of an active SEC Enforcement Division investigation.  CGI has 


not disclosed these proceedings.   





With CGI, we were already confident in our belief we are bearing witness to the real-time terminal 


collapse of a troubled company. As discussed in our Initiation Report, CGI’s projected cash burn in 


2H’17 of $80.1m far exceeds its borrowing availability of $54.3m and our estimate of ‘true’ TBV 


of ~$12m; as such, we expect the company to be insolvent within 1-2 quarters. 





We now have reason to believe this collapse will be accelerated. The historical record indicates that 


the disclosure of an SEC investigation when it comes to a company that has previously been accused 


of vastly overstating its financial position, results in the propulsion of a terminal collapse. For 


example,  





• Enron: Enron’s disclosure of an SEC investigation 10/22/2001 propelled its terminal 
collapse. As demonstrated in this report, within just 1.5 months after disclosing the 


investigation, Enron’s stock price collapsed by -99%, from over $20 to pennies, and it filed 


for bankruptcy.   


• Wins Finance (WINS): On March 30, 2017, a Seeking Alpha author reported that data he 
received (acquired via an SEC FOIA request) confirms that Wins Finance is the subject of 


an active SEC investigation,  propelling a collapse in the stock price. Over the past ~2 


weeks since this disclosure, WINS’ stock has fallen -79%. 





In our view, all paths for CGI end at bankruptcy, with no recoverable value for current shareholders; 


and the ongoing terminal decline we are witnessing is likely to accelerate in light of our revelation 


of an SEC investigation. 





We hope that current and future investors and creditors familiarize themselves with the risks 


we have addressed and take immediate action to preserve the value of their holdings.  We 


have communicated our findings to CGI’s auditor BKD LLP, and we hope they consider 


taking whatever precautions necessary to protect public shareholders. 





We think CGI stock is fundamentally worth $0.00/share and should be de-listed from the New 


York Stock Exchange. 





THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Prescience Point LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is not investment advice nor should 
it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions with respect to the securities covered herein. 
Forward-looking statement and projections are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and involve many risks (known and unknown) that could cause actual results 
to differ materially from expected results. You should assume we have a short interest in Celadon Group stock and therefore stand to realize significant gains in the 
event that the price of such instrument declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer located on the last page of this report. 


Celadon Group, Inc. | NYSE: CGI 
FOIA Requests Reveal CGI as the Subject of an Active SEC Investigation 











Share Price: 


$4.40 
 


Avg Daily Volume: 


520k 
 


Market Cap: 


$124.5m 
 


Debt: 


$471.9m 
 


Enterprice Value: 


$590.3m 
 


LTM Revenue: 


$1055m 
 


LTM Adj CFFO: 


-$28.9m 
 


LTM Adj FCF: 


-$48.3m 
 


Revolver Availability: 


~$54.3m (est) 
 


Auditor: 


BKD, LLP 





 



http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencepoint.com/reports/Celadon-Group-CGI.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4059103-wins-finance-active-sec-investigation-manipulation-russell-index

http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencefunds.com

http://www.presciencefunds.com
2 


CGI is Being Investigated by the SEC Enforcement Division 
 


We received data in response to our Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) requests that confirms CGI is the subject of an active SEC 


investigation. CGI has failed to disclose these proceedings.   


In a letter dated March 3, 2017, the FOIA office denied our request for access to CGI’s investigative records by invoking Exemption (b)(7)(A) 


of the FOIA.  Citation of the (b)(7)(A) exemption means that the SEC deems the release of information it has collected on CGI could be 


expected to interfere with law enforcement proceedings.  


▪ An excerpt from the first page of the FOIA office’s response letter is provided below: 











▪ Again, by invoking Exemption (b)(7)(A), the SEC has acknowledged that CGI is the subject of an ongoing SEC investigation. Per the 


Department of Justice, 


The first subpart of Exemption 7 of the Freedom of Information Act, Exemption 7, authorizes the withholding of 


'records or information compiled for law enforcement purposes, but only to the extent that production of such law 


enforcement records or information . . . could reasonably be expected to interfere with enforcement proceedings.' 



https://www.justice.gov/oip/foia-guide-2004-edition-exemption-7a
3 





▪ For further confirmation of the existence of an investigation, we sent an administrative appeal to the General Counsel’s office.  In 


its response, the General Counsel’s office denied our access to CGI’s records by once again invoking Exemption (b)(7)(A), stating 


that releasing investigative records on CGI could “interfere with ongoing enforcement proceedings.”  By doing so, the General 


Counsel’s office has confirmed that CGI is the subject of an active SEC investigation.  An excerpt from the first page of the General 


Counsel’s response letter is provided below:
4 


Overwhelming Evidence of Wrongdoing Means that Future Enforcement Actions Are Likely Inevitable 


Based on our analysis, CGI has left a paper trail of wrongdoing: Its most recent SEC filings contain an overwhelming amount of evidence 


that indicates it grossly fabricated its financial reports.  For example, as detailed in our Initiation Report, the JV subscription agreement filed 


on February 10th contains what, in our view, amounts to incontrovertible proof that CGI lied about collecting a $31.8m receivable from 


Element.  Given how thorough its investigations generally are, we believe the SEC is almost certain to take notice of such seemingly 


definitive evidence of misconduct during its review of CGI’s filings.  Therefore, we fully expect the SEC’s investigation to result in severe 


enforcements actions against the company and its senior management team. 


A quick recap of our findings about the $31.8m receivable is provided below: 


• CGI claimed in its January 6th 8-K and Q2’17 10-Q that it collected on a $31.8m receivable from Element prior to the JV closing. 


• The truth, as later disclosed in the JV subscription agreement, is that CGI received a $31.8m sham ‘daylight loan’ from Element 


which was then immediately paid off at the JV closing.  Thus, it appears CGI was not reimbursed by Element and should have 


written off this receivable in its Q2’17 financial statements; in not doing so, CGI inflated its asset values. 


• This, in our view, amounts to incontrovertible proof that CGI inflated its Q2’17 TBV and profits by at least $31.8m.
5 


Like CGI, Like… Enron? 
 


We always index the companies we expose against accounting frauds past; in doing so, we develop better understandings of our subjects. 


Further, we have found no better predictor for how things will unfold than tracking against a what we deem to be a historical parallel.  


We initially decided to compare CGI against Enron because Enron was notorious for using off-balance sheet entities and related party 


transactions to fabricate its SEC financial statements and siphon shareholder value out of the company. CGI has used these same structures 


and methods, in our opinion, to achieve the same results. Beyond these factors, we found the similarities ran much deeper. We are 


confident that the CGI of today is similar to the Enron of 2001, and that the company will meet a similar fate. 


The table below demonstrates some of the most troubling similarities:
6 


Effect of Disclosure of an SEC Investigation on the Stock of Troubled Cos. 
 


The historical record indicates that the disclosure of an SEC Investigation when it comes to a company that has previously been accused of 


fabricating its financials and vastly overstating its TBV, results in the propulsion of a terminal collapse. We believe we are currently 


witnessing CGI’s terminal collapse in real time. 


Enron stock collapsed 99% and it declared Ch 11 bankruptcy in only 1.5 months after it disclosed an SEC 


investigation.  


One of the most shocking aspects of the Enron story was just how quickly the situation unraveled: Enron’s disclosure of an SEC investigation 


in 2001 propelled its terminal collapse. Within just a month and a half after making this disclosure, Enron’s stock price collapsed by -99%, 


from over $20 to pennies, and it filed for bankruptcy.   


Based on our discovery and confirmation of an active SEC investigation, and our assessment that CGI has grossly fabricated its SEC 


financials to mask a dire financial condition, we believe CGI faces an unwind of similar speed and consequence.
7 


Management Goes Radio Silent on Shareholders: A Tacit Admission of Guilt? 
 


CGI appears to be navigating the most perilous time in its history; based on our analysis, it is running dry of liquidity and faces critical 


questions about its accounting and business practices. CGI’s stock has collapsed by >30% in just the past 2 weeks. Yet, as opposed to fairly 


representing CGI’s shareholders with efforts to re-instill market confidence, management has gone radio silent. In effect, CGI management 


has turned its back on shareholders, most likely in the interest of self-preservation. The signaling effect of this choice of response should 


be deeply concerning and interpreted as a tacit admission of guilt. 


If we are right in our assessment of this company (refer to our Initial Report), CGI may be on the hook for serious legal infractions. Essentially, 


we believe investors and creditors were lied to as shareholder value was unsuspectedly sucked out of the company, and that CGI now sits 


at the precipice of bankruptcy.  


▪ We now know the company is being actively investigated by law enforcement. CGI faces great legal risk. 


▪ Any competent legal team would advise its at-risk client to maintain complete silence to avoid further implication, as the walls 


are already caving in.   


In our view, management’s silence is likely at the advice of legal counsel, and it should be interpreted as a glaring red flag.  





CGI is not even responding to private email requests for contact 


Equally as concerning, management has appeared to be completely unreachable for a period of ~4 weeks now.  We have attempted email 


contact of CGI management and investor relations on several occasions, both before and after we published our Initiation Report. We have 


yet to receive a single response.
8 


Legal Disclaimer: 


This research report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are based upon publicly 


available information, and all of which are set out in this research report.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete 


loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible 


loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, and projections.  You should 


assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Prescience Point LLC’s 


control.  This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your  own risk.  You 


should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. 





You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along with or through our 


members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks 


(and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation Celadon Group (“CGI”), and therefore 


stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of any report or letter, we intend 


to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our 


initial recommendation.  





This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 


jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Prescience Point LLC is not registered as 


an investment advisor. 





To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to 


state material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources 


we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 


owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of 


information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, Prescience Point LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession 


of Celadon Group or other insiders of Celadon Group that has not been publicly disclosed by Celadon Group. Therefore, such information 


contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point LLC makes no other 


representations, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results 


to be obtained from its use.
