http://presciencepoint.com

http://presciencepoint.com

https://twitter.com/presciencepoint
Disclaimer


This research report expresses our research opinions, which we have based upon certain facts, all of which are based upon publicly 
available information, and all of which are set out in this research report.  Any investment involves substantial risks, including complete 
loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum 
possible loss or gain. Any information contained in this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, and projections.  
You should assume these types of statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Prescience 
Point LLC’s control.  This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point LLC’s research is at your 
own risk.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered 
herein.


You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point LLC (possibly along with or through our 
members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks 
(and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation ULTA Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, 
Inc. (“ULTA”), and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. Following publication of
any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any 
time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. 


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any 
jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.  Prescience Point LLC is not registered as 
an investment advisor.


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to 
state material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been obtained from public sources 
we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 
owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity that was breached by the transmission of 
information to Prescience Point LLC.  However, Prescience Point LLC recognizes that there may be non-public information in the 
possession of ULTA Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. or other insiders of ULTA Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. that has not been 
publicly disclosed by ULTA Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without 
warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to the 
accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use.    


1
Table of Contents 


2


I. Report Highlights


II. Conclusive Evidence ULTA at Saturation Point, Store Quality Plummeting


III. Store Cannibalization is Worsening 


IV. ULTA Same-Store Sales at Inflection Point, Set to Plunge


V. Ecommerce and Small Format Stores Will Not Be Saviors


VI. ULTA Balance Sheet Flashing Warning Signs


VII. ULTA Management Compensation Incentivizes Over-Expansion/Empire 
Building


VIII. A Long Way Down from Growth to Value


IX. Appendix
Report Highlights
Prescience Point has been following “growth story” retailer ULTA passively for a number of years now.  It piqued our interest during the 
2012 – 2013 timeframe, when a plethora of red flags surfaced potentially signaling slowing demand and/or market saturation: 


 The trend in SSS began deteriorating in Q1’12 and declined rapidly into 2013


 In FY’13, ULTA changed its definition of SSS to include e-commerce sales (which benefits headline SSS)


 Inventory levels appeared unmanageable, growing in excess of guidance and of forward quarter sales growth; DSI was steadily 
moving higher


 Unusual string of executive-level turnover: 


 2 CFO resignations in 2012:  1.) 3/8/12: Gregg Bodnar resigns after serving for 6 years; 2.) 10/18/12: Bruce Hartman, 
who was appointed CFO after an extensive search, resigns after serving for 6 weeks


 2/14/13: CEO Chuck Rubin resigns after serving for 2.5 years


It was particularly interesting that on 6/6/2012, ULTA inexplicably increased its store count guidance from 1000 stores to 1200 stores, a 
move having clear valuation implications. The move was concerning:


 Why would ULTA up its store count guidance as the business showed signs of deterioration?


 The increase seemed very premature –> ULTA was only 47% penetrated on its initial guidance for 1000 potential stores (467 
stores at Q1’12)


It was also troubling that, by our estimate, insiders sold ~$60m worth of stock between 6/8/2012 and 10/5/2012, in the period following 
the announcement, and preceding further reported deterioration in 2013.  


Despite the aforementioned red flags, ULTA’s stock has doubled since the end of 2013 and currently trades at ~30x NTM P/E.  
Paradoxically, the market cap/store has increased nearly 4x since 2010 and is currently close to all-time highs, even though the company 
will be 97% saturated by FYE’16 (based on the Company’s initial guidance).


4


Introduction



http://ir.ulta.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=213869&p=irol-newsArticle&ID=1702772
We believe that ULTA’s time as a “growth story” is over; the chain is at saturation right now.  Similar to our prior work on multi-billion 
dollar companies Chicago Bridge & Iron and LKQ Corp., Prescience Point has uncovered an empire-building case fueling value-destructive 
growth at the expense of long-term shareholders.  Moreover, we believe ULTA was aware of its saturation problems when it increased 
store potential to 1,200 in 2012 and accelerated store openings to mask weak underlying performance.  This burst of new store openings 
has produced a transitory “demographic dividend” from newer stores ramping up their comparable store sales.   


As a part of our investigation, we commissioned an independent research organization to quantitatively analyze ULTA’s entire 860-store 
base including geographic analysis with census data overlay.  The results are staggering; stores located within five miles of each other 
tripled from 2012 to 2015 (now more than 10% of stores),  stores were increasingly opened in areas where more than 50% of the 
population had incomes below ULTA’s target customer, and store-level gross margins have been weakening.  Prescience Point sees a
saturated store base that is undergoing cannibalization.  In addition, transitory items including the “demographic dividend” will soon be 
cut short, as these stores will never reach the current mature store economics.  Lastly, reported same-store sales have been driven by 
traffic (transaction count) rather than average ticket (dollar value of average transaction).  Consequently, we believe this trend suggests 
higher transaction volume is the results of increased new store openings and weaker average ticket is the result of opening in lower quality 
locations.     


From a working capital standpoint, inventory has continued to increase at a faster rate than revenue growth – a trend we believe will 
pressure Company margins.  Moreover, ULTA has an unusual accounting policy whereby it capitalizes purchasing costs to inventory.  We 
believe capitalizing purchasing costs overstates margins as inventory levels build.      


What would drive a management team to over-build?  Incentivization: management is compensated solely on “adjusted EBT”; there are no 
considerations given to other metrics (i.e. ROIC).  Accordingly, management has been collecting large paychecks for aggressively expanding 
the store base.  However, the executives holds very little ULTA stock and are not heavily impacted by the quality of the stores opened.


We believe Wall Street wants investors to focus on sales growth, while hoping margin expansion follows suit.  Prescience Point believes 
that with this new data now made available publicly, ULTA will re-rate substantially down to its “true” low multiple competitive set.  
Based on our analysis: 1.) ULTA is about to hit a brick wall of revenue shortfalls due to saturation/cannibalization and slowing same-
store sales, while at the same time face margin pressure from excess inventory; and, 2.) ULTA stock is worth ~$88, 45% below current 
trading levels.


5


Introduction (cont’d)
Valuation/Store Paradoxically Skyrockets as Store 


Quality Deteriorates & Growth Approaches Brick Wall


6


0.0%


10.0%


20.0%


30.0%


40.0%


50.0%


60.0%


70.0%


80.0%


$0.0


$2.0


$4.0


$6.0


$8.0


$10.0


$12.0


$14.0


Market Capitilization-Per-Store % of store base not yet constructed (based on guidance for 1,000 stores)


Store base increases nearly 50% in 4 
years, ULTA regularly guides SSS, 
sales, and EPS above consensus 
expectations – become Wall Street 
Darling = valuation per store triples


Signs of saturation increase & lower quality new store openings surge


Valuation-per-
store at its 


highs, while 
new store 


opportunities 
plummet


Source: ULTA filings with the SEC; Prescience Point analysis and estimates
 ULTA Salon, Cosmetics & Fragrance, Inc. (“ULTA” or “the Company”): 


 Trades at NTM P/E of ~30x 


 Is grossly overvalued (huge divergence in stock price vs. underlying performance)


 “Retail growth story” categorization creates substantial downside risk


 Store base has hit saturation point


 Store quality has deteriorated dramatically


 New stores are cannibalizing existing stores


 Same-store sales (SSS) are at an inflection point (set to fall off cliff)


 Inventory growth & unusual inventory accounting policy unsustainability boosted margin


 Unusual management compensation creates incentives for empire building / value-
destructive growth


Source: Prescience Point analysis and estimates 
7


Prescience Point Believes:


Price Target Range: $84 - $92 per share (42% – 47% Downside)
 Prescience Point analysis of ULTA’s geography, census data, & financial reports demonstrate: 


 ULTA’s cannot achieve its increased guidance target of 1,200 stores without severe 
deterioration in store-level economics


 Store base is already saturated:


• In less than 12 months, store base will be 97.4% saturated based on initial guidance 


• Store level economics set to roll-over dramatically


 ULTA’s new store openings are getting closer and closer to existing stores:


• Despite ULTA’s representations that customers are willing to travel, stores have been 
opened right next to each other


• New stores’ distance from existing stores has shrunk by more than 50% since 2010


• Stores within 5 miles of each other increased 3x in the last 3 years (~10% of store base)


 Increased store openings in zip codes with average household incomes below ULTA’s own 
stated target of “over $60,000” 


8


Report Highlights
 Prescience Point believes ULTA’s “headline” SSS are at an inflection point, set to plunge:


 SSS have been unsustainably boosted by (1) new store ramp and (2) inclusion of E-Commerce revenue 


 Trend will reverse in the near future as the store base is rapidly maturing 


 Declining store level gross margin and SSS “internals” indicate ongoing cannibalization 


 E-Commerce and “small store” pilot program will not be saviors:


 “Small store” pilot program is inconsistent with Company’s differentiation strategy


 Indicates ULTA is aware of the saturation problem


 E-Commerce margins will be pressured by larger competitors


 E-Commerce cannibalizes store traffic


 ULTA’s Balance Sheet is flashing warnings signs:


 Inventory has been growing faster than sales for almost 4 years


 ULTA has a highly unusual inventory accounting policy: capitalization of purchasing costs 


• Not a policy for ~18 direct public competitors 


• Could be used for assigning period SG&A costs and boosting margins 


• Could be a factor in the observed rampant inventory growth


 If elevated inventory levels are rationalized due to slower comp sales (which we fully expect), ULTA will 
be faced with both revenue and margin shortfalls  


9


Report Highlights
 ULTA has an unusual management compensation structure:


 ULTA removed ROIC metric for compensation targets (eliminated ONLY consideration of 
store level profitability and efficiency)


 Management now compensated solely on adjusted earning before taxes


 Compensation target SOLELY incentivizes absolute growth 


 ULTA has responded with an aggressive store roll-out (including many poor quality 
stores in recent periods) to achieve these compensation targets


 Current management team has extremely low ownership interest


 Long-term health of business is not a primary concern given lower ownership


 ULTA’s “growth story” valuation is unforgiving:


 Trades at NTM P/E of ~30x 


 Based on our analysis, ULTA stock is worth ~$88 per share, ~45% below current trading 
levels.


10


Report Highlights
Background and Business
Sources: ULTA most recent 10-Q and 10-K; Prescience Point estimates 
12


Business Description


 ULTA is a retailer of beauty products and salon services. It offers over 20,000 cosmetic products 
across a variety of price points and categories, including hair care, make-up, fragrances, and nail 
care. Stores are predominantly located in “off mall” locations, such as local “power centers”, and 
stores are generally around 10,000 square feet.


 As of Q3 15, ULTA operated 860 stores in the US and an e-commerce website


 Current growth plans are “~100” new stores per year (to 1,200 stores)


 ULTA reports revenue in three segments:


 Retail stores – sell branded/private label prestige & mass beauty products (~90% of revenue)


 Salon services – provide haircuts, hair coloring, facials, & waxing (~5.5% of revenue)


 E-Commerce – sells retail store products via online website (~4.5% of revenue)


 ULTA breaks out same-sales stores into multiple components:


 Retail sales vs. E-Commerce sales


 Traffic (transaction count) vs. average ticket (dollar value of average transaction)


 Stores enter the comp base 14 months after opening


 The Company was founded in 1990, and IPO’ed in 2007
Sources: ULTA most recent 10-Q and 10-K; Prescience Point estimates 
13


Business Description


 ULTA generates majority of revenue from retail sales


 E-Commerce revenue has increased significantly over the last three years


 Top-five markets account for large amount of stores


 California, Texas, Florida have the highest concentration


ULTA Revenue by Segment
(% of revenue)


FY 12 FY 13 FY 14


Retail Stores 92.7% 91.0% 90.0% 


Salon Services 5.5% 5.5% 5.4% 


E-Commerce 1.8% 3.6% 4.6% 


Total 100.0% 100.0% 100.0%
Sources: ULTA filings and PR, Morningstar Professional; press reports, Prescience Point estimates 
14


Background


CEO of 10 yrs resigns 
8/2010; COO Chuck 
Rubin appointed CEO


Chuck Rubin resigns 
to join Michael 
Stores 2/2013


Mary Dillon of US 
Cellular joins as CEO 
6/2013-present


CFO of 6 yrs resigns 
due to fam health 
3/2012


Replacement CFO 
resigns in 6 weeks
9/2012-10/2012


Acting 
internal CFO 
appointed to 
CFO 3/13 -
present


Potential stores raised to 1,200 from 
1,000 6/2012 only at 46.7% saturation


Openings spike right after potential increased, leading to 
optically great SSS as newer stores conceal cannibalization 


Ecomm inclusion in  
SSS starting in FY2013


Inventory growth a 
persistent concern
Sources: Bloomberg as of Friday, Feb 12, 2016; , Morningstar Professional, ULTA most recent 10-Q
15


Key Statistics
Conclusive Evidence ULTA


at Saturation Point, 


Store Quality Plummeting
 Prescience Point hired an independent research firm to analyze ULTA’s store base


 The research firm obtained:


 Stores by location and quarter opened since ULTA’s founding in 1990


 2010 census data


 Co-tenant store data


 The research firm analyzed:


 Concentration of ULTA stores (i.e. the distance between stores)


 Demographics of ULTA store locations (based on 2010 census data)


 Concentration of ULTA stores relative to preferred cotenants


 Data and analysis is available here: LINK


 Prescience Point has concluded based on this analysis that Wall Street is unaware of 
the level of store saturation, deterioration in new store location demographics, and 
the decline in stores opened without preferred co-tenants.


17


Prescience Point Conducts Comprehensive 


Investigation of ULTA Store Location Quality



https://www.dropbox.com/s/cu3tedssfslhuvt/UltaCensusPeersAggregate.accdb?dl=0
 New store growth has been the primary revenue driver since ULTA’s inception


 Store base near complete saturation based on ULTA’s initial total addressable market


 Store openings in new markets will hit all-time low, according to ULTA guidance


 Quality of new store openings deteriorates rapidly


 Stores opening closer and closer to each other (fewer white space opportunities)


 Stores are being opened in less dense and lower income regions (i.e. poor quality)


 Stores in certain locations are being built within a few miles of each other


 Strategy shift to small format stores highlights saturation


 ULTA has been compelled to open stores in lower quality areas within a few miles of 
each other to maintain its “growth” status with Wall Street.  We believe this growth 
strategy has reached an inflection point wherein unit level economics deteriorate, SSS 
slow dramatically, and overall revenue growth is pressured.


18


Saturation and Store Quality Thesis Outlined
 Since inception, new store growth has been the primary driver of revenue growth


 Ability to continue to grow double-digits largely dependent on new store openings


 Multiple signs suggest the market for ULTA stores is saturated (most notably, the 
Company’s own guidance)


19


Revenue Dependent on Store Growth
 ULTA established its 1,000 store guidance target in its IPO prospectus in 2007


 ULTA had a 17 year operating history (1990 – 2007) to determine the total addressable market


 ULTA had over 200 stores ~30 states


 ULTA reiterated its 1,000 store guidance consistently through May 2012


 ULTA had ~5 years as a public company + 17 years as private to determine the TAM


 ULTA had over 430 stores in 43 states at beginning of 2012


 ULTA increased its store guidance to 1,200 stores in June 2012


 Three weeks prior the largest shareholder had reduced ownership from ~18% to ~5%


 ULTA reiterated store guidance target of 1,000 at investor day just two weeks earlier


 Mr. Rubin had been the CEO for less than two years at the time of the guidance raise


 Multiple executives dumped stock in the months following the guidance raise (4 
executives/board members sold nearly $50M in stock!)


 Prescient Point believes that ULTA knows the true total addressable market is 1,000 stores (it had 
nearly 22 years to figure it out).  We believe ULTA increased the store guidance to 1,200 to (1) 
promote its “growth” story to Wall Street, (2) provide an opportunity for insiders to sell stock, 
and  (3) assuage investor concerns about its largest shareholder dumping stock.


20


Store Target Gives Illusion of Long Runway
Source: ULTA filings, Prescience Point estimates


 In less than twelve months, ULTA will 97.4% saturated based on its initial 
guidance (81% saturated on updated)


21


Market Saturated Based On Initial Guidance
ULTA Indentifies Stores Most Susceptible to 


Cannibalization And They Are Surging


 ULTA claims that any cannibalization that takes place will take place when opening stores in existing 
markets 


22


“We are always opening stores in new markets and existing markets, as well. To a large degree, a lot of the -- any of 
the cannibalization… occurs in the existing markets…” 


– Former CFO Gregg R. Bodnar, September 06, 2012 call


 On the following slides, we demonstrate a surge in stores most susceptible to cannibalization, which 
will result in deterioration in store level economics.  This is a clear indication ULTA has saturated the 
market.
 ULTA guided for only 25% of store openings in 2016 to occur in new markets


 Represents the lowest percentage disclosed in the last five years (possibly ever)


 Demographics of new markets has declined precipitously


 Lack of new markets provides further evidence that ULTA has hit a saturation point 


23


Lack of New Markets Highlights Saturation


Trend of last three 
years is getting worse
Source: Conference transcript, independent research database (linked previously); Prescience estimates 


 ULTA claims that its customers are willing to travel 


24


Store Concentration Surges


We know what our market share is. We color code a map so we know within a five-mile radius
because by and large we have loyalty customers everywhere. She is traveling -- if there is not an 
Ulta store close by, she is traveling places to shop with us on whatever mission she might be 
on. So we do a good job and we have a long history of all that data. 


(CFO Mr. Scott M. Settersten, Oppenheimer Consumer Conference, 06/25/14)


 Despite its claims that customers are willing to travel, ULTA has accelerated store 
openings that are right on top of each other (as shown over the next several slides).
 ULTA stores within 5 miles of each other have tripled in the last three years to 91 stores


 Increased store concentration indicates the market is saturated


 The following slides provide a few examples of highly concentrated stores – notice the 
quality of location, risk of traffic cannibalization, and co-tenants


25


Stores Opened Right Next To Each Other


Opening stores in densely 
populated cities cannot rationalize 
the concentration – only  16 are in 
highly populated areas
 In Q4 14, ULTA opened Village at Stone Oaks (Store #795) in Northern San Antonio.


 Store #795 is just a 3.9 mile drive from Northwoods Shopping Center (Store #327)


 Store #795 cannibalizes all of 


Store #327’s southbound


traffic on SR281


 Store #795 is in a less 


desirable location, no traffic


from northbound SR281,


or East/West bound traffic


on SR1604


 Traffic dependent on sparsely


populated Northern San 


Antonio
26


New San Antonio Store In Terrible Location


ULTA Store  #795
Village at Stone Oaks
Constructed Q4 14


ULTA Store  #327
Northwoods Shopping Center
Constructed Q3 08
 In Q3 15, ULTA opened Square Too (Store #818) southwest of Portland, OR.


 Store #818 is just a 4.8 mile drive from Cedar Hills Crossing (Store #130).


 ULTA waited 10 years to open a 


second store in this region.  If this


was a quality location, why didn’t 


ULTA open a store sooner?


 These stores will now split traffic


from customers living along 


SR217. Twice the fixed costs (two


stores, but customers did


not double.


27


New Oregon Store To Split Traffic With 


Existing Store


Store #130
Cedar Hills Crossing
Constructed Q3 2005


Store #818
Square Too
Constructed Q3 2015
 In Q3 15, ULTA opened Clairemont Town Square (Store #839) in central San Diego, CA.


 Store #839 is just over a five mile drive to La Jolla Village Square (Store #69).


 ULTA waited over a decade to open


a second store in this region. 


Prescience Point  believes ULTA had


good reason.


 The Clairemont store:


 Has no highway access


 All traffic will be local residents


 +50% of residents earn LESS


than $50K a year


 Cotenants include Burlington


Coat Factory, Big Lots, 99 Cent


Store.  Only preferred cotenant


is TJ Maxx
28


New San Diego Store Much Lower Quality 


Than Nearby Store


Store #69
La Jolla Village Square
Opened Q3 2002


Store #839
Clairemont Town Square
Opened Q3 2015
Source: independent research database (linked previously); Prescience estimates; distances exclude Alaska locations and include relocations 


 The average distance between new and the closest old store has been cut 
by more than 50% since 2010


 Negative effects could be visible in the near future as these new stores will 
likely not reach the volume of the “average” mature store 


29


Store Concentration Surges
 ULTA devotes considerable effort to convince Wall Street about its customer and store quality


 Promotes the high average income of its customers +60K a year (“affluent”)


 Promotes in-depth real estate selection process (“power centers” are 83% of stores)


 Promotes strong co-tenants: BBBY, DSW, TGT, JWN, and TJX


 Census data shows that store location quality has deteriorated in recent years as the market has 
been saturated.


30


ULTA Promotes Customer & Store Quality
 ULTA states that its customers are “affluent” with income +$60K
 More than 50% of store openings in areas with avg incomes less than $50K (Pre IPO: closer to 40%)
 Nearly 8% families live in poverty in locations of newly opened stores (Pre IPO: closer to 4%)


 The deterioration in income statistics indicates the market is saturated and ULTA has moved to lower 
income areas to open new stores.  These stores are unlikely to produce advertised store-level economics. 


*Income data based on 2010 census data for the zip code where each store was opened.
31


Stores Located In Lower Income Areas


ULTA knew (or should have known) that 
store quality had deteriorated (i.e. THE 
MARKET WAS SATURATED) when it 
raised store guidance to 1,200 in 2012.
 From 2011 to 2015, ULTA opened 193 stores in ‘new markets’ (Prescience Point estimated as no stores within 20 
miles).  The demographics of ‘new markets’ has deteriorated drastically.  Poverty levels and residents making 
<$50k/year have skyrocketed, while population density has plummeted.


 Prescience Point believes  the deterioration in new markets proves there is limited new opportunities and the 
market is saturated.  As a result, ULTA has constructed stores in increasingly tighter concentrations (in existing 
markets) that will certainly cause continued cannibalization.


32


Demographic Deterioration Even Worse In 


New Markets
33


ULTA Store Traffic Dependent On Co-tenants


 ULTA devotes considerable effort to convince Wall Street that it opens stores in quality locations


 ULTA represents that it opens stores near certain best of breed big box retailers


 ULTA indicates these retailers are “are very big drivers of traffic”


 These retailers include DSW, JWN, TGT, DKS, BBBY,  and TJX 


 Prescience Point hired an independent research firm to analyze preferred co-tenants store locations


 The research firm purchased store data for each of the six preferred co-tenants


 These store locations were triangulated against ULTA store locations to determine which ULTA 
stores had preferred co-tenants


 ULTA stores opened without preferred co-tenants has skyrocketed.  Prescience Point believes this is 
just another piece of evidence that the market for ULTA stores is saturated.  As ULTA over expands, it 
cannot find co-tenants in these weaker locations.


Our current store base has several cotenants that we feel most comfortable with. They are usually the 
best of the breed, big-box cotenants, tenants such as DSW, Nordstrom Rack, Target, Dick's, Bed Bath & 
Beyond, T.J. Maxx. These big-box tenants are very big drivers of traffic and we like that.


-Alex Lelli, SVP of Growth and Development, 10/15/14
34


Stores Without Preferred Co-tenants Skyrocket


 Since 2012, ULTA stores without a preferred co-tenant doubled to 121 stores (now +14% of stores)


 This is exactly the same as the trend as stores opened within five miles of each 


 Prescience Point believes management knew the store base was getting saturated in 2012 
when it increased its guidance  1,200 stores.  Over 20% of ULTA’s stores now (1) have no 
preferred co-tenant or (2) are located within five miles of another store.


 The following few slides demonstrate the challenges generating traffic without solid co-tenants.


ULTA knew (or should have known) that 
store quality had deteriorated (i.e. THE 
MARKET WAS SATURATED) when it raised 
store guidance to 1,200 in 2012.
35


Lack of Co-tenants Pressures Traffic


 In Q1 15, ULTA opened Pikeville Commons (Store #755) in Pikeville, Kentucky


 Pikeville’s co-tenants include a Wal-mart, Dollar Tree, Ross Dress for Less, and Hobby Lobby


 These co-tenants are unlikely to drive “affluent” customers to ULTA


 In fact, it will be extremely difficult to find target ULTA customers (i.e. income +$60K) given that 
more than 3/4ths of households in the area have incomes of <$50K per year.


 This is the image of market saturation –ULTA store in low income area with no preferred co-tenants.


Wal-Mart
Ross 
Hobby Lobby
Dollar Tree
36


Lack of Co-tenants Pressures Traffic


 In Q1 15, ULTA opened Mesa Center (Store #805) in Costa Mesa, CA.


 Store 805’s co-tenants include Ralphs (a grocery store), CVS Pharmacy, and a Ace Hardware


 These are convenience type stores that will not drive traffic to this ULTA location.


 Furthermore, store #805 is just a 3.7 mile drive from Store#556 opened in Q3 2012.


 Store #805 will not benefit from co-tenant traffic and will also have to compete for traffic with 
another ULTA store that is just a few miles away.  The market for ULTA stores is saturated.


Store#805
Mesa Center
Opened Q1 15


Store#556
Fashion Island 
Shopping Center
Opened Q3 12


Ralphs
Ace Hardware
CVS Pharmacy
Small Format Pilot Indicates Saturation


Source: ULTA slide deck from GS Sept 09 2015 conference; ULTA latest 10-K


 At recent investor conferences, ULTA discussed its experiments with small format 
stores (~5,000 sq ft vs. ~10,000 sq ft regular)


 Prescience Point believes that small format tests could be an indication that ULTA, 
internally, is aware of the saturation problem


 In its latest 10-K, ULTA lists as its #1 business key aspect “one stop shop”, offering the 
wide selection of “more than 20,000 prestige and mass beauty products… in a bright, 
open-store environment…We believe we offer the widest selection of categories…”


 Opening stores with half of the footprint appears to be going against offering wide 
selection, a key competitive strength listed 


37



http://phx.corporate-ir.net/External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NTk0MTI0fENoaWxkSUQ9MzAzNTU3fFR5cGU9MQ==&t=1

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1403568/000119312515115602/d842591d10k.htm
Store Cannibalization is Worsening
Store Cannibalization Worsening


 What is cannibalization?


 Cannibalization is the decline in store performance caused by the placement of another 
store in close proximity, preventing both stores from reaching their full sales and 
profitability potential, and lowering gross margin per store


 Cannibalization can occur while the chain reports sales growth and same store sales 
growth, predominantly transactions (traffic)


 Cannibalization is so important in retail that franchisors, who deal with independent 
franchisees, contractually guarantee a minimum exclusive radius in which no franchise 
will be sold to another franchisee


 Prescience Point believes that ULTA’s saturation is already leading to store cannibalization 


39


A variety of factors affect our comparable sales and quarterly financial performance, including…
cannibalization of existing store sales by new store openings.


- ULTA Annual 10K Filings


 ULTA warns investors about the risk of cannibalization:
Wall Street Ceased Questioning ULTA 


About Cannibalization


Source: Conference call transcripts and Prescience Point estimates 


 ULTA only discusses cannibalization when asked about it by analysts on conference calls
 Prescience Point was unable to identify any organic commentary from ULTA about 


cannibalization (outside of boiler plate language included in its SEC filings)


 Analysts almost never asked about cannibalization in the early years. Prescience Point 
believes that ULTA has only responded to seven questions about cannibalization in 
its entire history.


 The first question about cannibalization in five years occurred on March 8th, 2012
 ULTA indicated that store openings  in “some cases in those existing markets…will create some 


cannibalization”
 ULTA raised its total store count guidance just three months later to 1,200 stores


 Prescience Point believes investors are not focused enough on the impact of cannibalization as 
evidenced by the lack of questions to management.  Prescience believes the negative impacts of 
cannibalization will be a shock to investors.


40


Questions About Cannibalization
Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015


Number of Questions 1 0 0 0 0 2 1 3 0


% saturation based 1,000 store guidance            24.9% 31.1% 34.6% 38.9% 44.9% 55.0% 67.5% 77.4% 86.0%
Store Cannibalization Model


Source: Prescience Point estimates 


 Prescience Point presents a simplified model of value destruction through cannibalization


 A second store opens near an existing store, and by Year 2, we can see growth in overall 
sales, transactions, same-store sales (even with flat ticket) but lower gross profit versus 
Year 0


 Note that the SSS increase is driven entirely by transactions, and not by ticket


 As we’ll see on the next slide, this is exactly what is happening with ULTA: transaction 
growth boosts “headline” SSS while store gross profit margin is dropping


41
Gross Profit Margin Deterioration Indicates 


Cannibalization Worsening
 In March 2012, ULTA’s CFO stated that cannibalization, while an issue here or there, wasn’t significant 


because ULTA was <50% saturated on guidance for 1k stores


 Today, ULTA is closing on 100% saturation on that guidance; cannibalization is an issue, and a growing 
one


 As shown on the previous slide, a key indicator of cannibalization is reduced gross profit margin per store


 ULTA gross profit margin per store declined to 35.1%
 The second consecutive period of decline (coincides with saturation)
 The lowest level in 3 years.


42


I’d also remind you that when you have less than half of your potential store build-out that’s up and 
running, cannibalization will be a factor in some cases, but we have a lot of runway open…”


-Former CFO Gregg Bodnar, 3/8/2012 conf call
Cannibalization a Growing Problem


 Cannibalization is a growing problem at ULTA; it is evident in increasing sales, 
increasing same-store sales (predominantly transactions from new stores, not 
ticket) and declining gross margin per store


 The Street is focused on the “headline” SSS while missing both ticket vs. transactions 
dynamic, and the dropping gross margin per store as signs of cannibalization


 Please note that seasonal fluctuations in working capital prevent valid year-end 
comparisons to LTM ROIC metrics (LTM ROIC is understated at Q3)


43Source: Prescience Point research opinions
ULTA SSS Growth at Inflection Point, 


Set to Plunge
ULTA Same-Store Sales Growth at Inflection 


Point


Source: Prescience Point estimates & research opinions 


 Prescience Point believes that ULTA’s SSS growth is at an inflection point:


 a slowdown in “growth story” stocks’ SSS could lead to a serious decline in valuation


 ULTA’s same-store sales:


 Ramp of stores between 2-5 years old provided unsustainable “demographic dividend”, 
resulting in ‘illusion of growth’ 


 Store maturation will pressure SSS growth sustainability


 Store openings in lower income areas will negatively impact SSS growth


 Cannibalization will eat into existing stores SSS


 Current transaction (traffic) boost likely due to new store openings


 Wall Street has focused on good reported “headline” SSS, but under the surface:


 Traffic has significantly outpaced average ticket


 Traffic and average ticket should be increasing in tandem


 Traffic outpacing average ticket suggests:


 Average ticket is dependent on unit growth and/or


 Traffic is being “bought” by discounting


 Inclusion of E-Commerce sales created an illusory benefit to “headline” SSS


 E-Commerce sales growth is decelerating
45
Unsustainable SSS Boost from Newer Stores


 New store revenue increases at the fastest rate in year 2 (per ULTA’s own guidance) 
 Revenue growth of new stores slows over the next few years
 New stores enter the comparable store base when revenue is growing fastest
 Revenue growth at new stores is predominately traffic rather than ticket


 New stores entering the comparable base in recent years have provided an unsustainable boost to 
same store sales.  These  new stores increase traffic comparables  which have been the primary 
driver of same store sales in recent periods.  This phenomena is unsustainable as demonstrated 
(next slide).


46
Store Base is Maturing Fast


Source: Unit growth target from ULTA slide deck from GS Sept 09 2015 conference ; Prescience Point estimates 


 The “demographic dividend” is a temporary phenomenon due to rapid unit growth in 
the last three years 


 Slow-growth 5-year+ old store base as a percentage of store mix will only increase in 
the future


 The percentage of stores in the comparable base two years old or less peaked in Q4 
14


47
ULTA SSS Challenges “Under the Surface”


Source: ULTA filings, Prescience Point estimates and research opinions


 ULTA’s “good” headline SSS has been driven predominantly by transactions, rather than a balance 
of transactions and ticket


 Growth in transactions is driven by new stores ramping up while the underlying business, the ticket, is 
indicating limited pricing power and lack of uniqueness of the offering


 ULTA’s headline SSS is also boosted by the inclusion of ecommerce growth, which is slowing


 We discuss ULTA’s lack of pricing advantages online later; as well as the margin compression seen by 
traditional retailers growing online sales


 Additionally, ecommerce could pressure/cannibalize in-store traffic rather than be purely incremental
 Ecommerce cannibalization was added as a risk factor in the FY13 10-K


48



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1403568/000119312514127781/d661459d10k.htm
Ecommerce and Small Format Stores 


Will Not Be Saviors
ULTA Ecommerce Will Not Be a Savior


Source: ULTA and AMZN websites, Prescience Point estimates, Fortune Magazine 


 ULTA’s tiny but growing ecommerce business will not be a savior 


 ULTA has no apparent price advantage online (identical basket costs 13.4% higher 
than AMZN) based on a sample basket of 20 diverse items (screenshots of all items 
side-by-side in Appendix I) 


“Your margin is my opportunity” 
– Jeff Bezos
Quoted by Fortune, Nov 16, 2012


50
ULTA Ecommerce Will Not Be a Savior


 ULTA’s tiny but growing online business will not be a savior


 In addition to ULTA lacking a pricing advantage in the transparent online world, growing online sales for 
traditional retailers has compressed margins


 Citi Research, in their coverage initiation report on specialty retailers in October 2015, looked at several 
retailers whose sales mix had more online sales in 2014 versus 2010


 13 retailers had grown online as a part of the sales mix (M, JCP, JWN, KSS, GPS, ANN, ANF, LULU, 
COH, CHS, URBN, AEO, ASNA)


 12 of these had seen EBIT margin compression


during the period, with M being the sole exception


 Reasons for the margin compression: price 


transparency, difficulty upselling/adding related 


items, free shipping on an order that might be 


fulfilled in two centers, high returns (shipping, 


processing)


51
ULTA Small Format Stores Will Not Be a 


Savior


Source: ULTA SEC filings; ULTA slide deck from GS Sept 09 2015 conference; Walmart IR press release from January 15, 2016; 


Prescience Point research opinions


 As previously discussed, at recent investor conferences, ULTA discussed its 
experiments with small format store (~5,000 sq ft vs. ~10,000 sq ft regular)
 Prescience Point believes that this could be an indication that ULTA, internally, is 


aware of the saturation problem: ULTA itself claims ‘one-stop-shop’ and the breadth 
of its product offerings as competitive advantages; why would ULTA give up what 
makes it so special if not of desperation to continue expanding at any cost (and 
expanding Earnings Before Taxes <– refer to the executive compensation section)?


 Two growth-challenged ULTA competitors, Walmart and Target, have tried the 
small format store strategy; Walmart announced on January 15, 2016, that the 
experiment will end with all 102 small format stores closed
 Why would a “growth story” retailer look to do this?


52


Our competitive advantages are the quality and assortment of merchandise and services, our value 
proposition, the quality of our guests’ shopping experience and the convenience of our stores and website as 
one-stop destinations for beauty products.


- ULTA most recent 10-K



http://phx.corporate-ir.net/External.File?item=UGFyZW50SUQ9NTk0MTI0fENoaWxkSUQ9MzAzNTU3fFR5cGU9MQ==&t=1

http://news.walmart.com/news-archive/2016/01/15/walmart-continues-sharpened-focus-on-portfolio-management
No Shortage of Places to Buy Cosmetics


Source: most recent 10-Q or 10-K filings with SEC; SEDAR for HBC.TO and corporate website for Sephora 


 Prescience Point has put together a sample of 18 publicly traded competitors across the 
different retail formats that ULTA lists as its competition in its latest 10-K (i.e, 
“department stores, specialty stores, drug stores, mass merchandisers and on-line” 
retailers) 


 With over 44,000 competitor locations, Prescience Point believes that there is little to no “white 
space” for cosmetics retailers or salons: there is no shortage of places to buy cosmetics or get a 
haircut


 US store counts sourced from most recent filings


53



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1403568/000119312515115602/d842591d10k.htm
ULTA Balance Sheet Flashing 


Warning Signals
ULTA Balance Sheet Flashing Warning 


Signals


Source: Prescience Point estimates 


 Inventory warning signs:


 Inventory is increasing at a significantly faster pace than revenue growth


 Inventory relative to next-quarter revenue is also increasing


 COGS-based inventory metrics are growing


 Prescience Point concerns about inventory:


 Slowing demand/cannibalization will lead to top-line and margin pressure


 If inventory levels are rationalized due to slower comparable sales (which we fully expect): 


• ULTA will be faced with both revenue and margin shortfalls


• Aggressive discounting to reduce in-store inventory will negatively impact average ticket


 Highly unusual capitalization of SG&A (purchasing) costs into inventory: 


• Is potentially inflating margins 


• Capitalization of purchasing costs does not appear to be standard industry practice


 High-valuation “growth story” stocks are expected to show improving margins as they scale-up


 Margin declines can lead to valuation multiple compression


55
Inventory Growing Well Ahead of Sales


Source: ULTA filings and press releases; Q315 call transcript; Prescience Point estimates 


 Some inventory growth is normal for a company growing both units and same-store sales


 ULTA’s average inventory growth per avg. sq. ft. has been outpacing sales per sq. ft. growth for almost four years


 The Company attributed some of the latest inventory growth to a new distribution center (Q3 15 call)


 The distribution center only accounted for $37 million (less than 5% of inventory)


 Significant inventory buildups may indicate weak demand and/or margin pressure from clearance sales, shrink, & waste


56



http://seekingalpha.com/article/3732666-ulta-salon-cosmetics-and-fragrances-ulta-ceo-mary-dillon-q3-2015-results-earnings-call?part=single
Source: ULTA filings and press releases; Prescience Point estimates 


 Days sales in inventory (DSI) continue to grow, increased YoY for the fourth consecutive period


57


Other Inventory Measures Also High


 Inventory growth relative to next-quarter sales growth has increased for four straight periods


 Persistent inventory builds could be indicative of forecasting and/or inventory management problems
Highly Unusual Inventory Accounting


Source: ULTA most recent 10-K


 ULTA’s capitalization of purchasing costs to inventory could:


 Indicate assignment of period SG&A costs to inventory, thus increasing margins


 Provide illusory margin improvement despite growing inventory levels


58



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1403568/000119312515115602/d842591d10k.htm
ULTA’s Inventory Accounting Not Common


Source: most recent 10-Ks on file with SEC or SEDAR (for HBC.TO). all accounting policy screenshots in.


 ULTA’s capitalization of purchasing costs to inventory is highly unusual:


 It is not a stated policy for 17 of the 18 competitors listed earlier (unclear on Sephora)


59
Inventory Growth Is Not A “Given”


Source: Prescience Point estimates 


 While the “prevailing wisdom” is that inventory growth happens with sales growth, we challenge 
this assumption: inventory growth is not a given


 At the store level, inventory growth below sales growth is entirely possible (and desirable) as 
discrete items have vastly different velocities 


 In the model below, we show how an inventory mix of items with different velocities, combined 
with a “safety stock” re-order point, can lead to increased same-store sales and lower inventory 
levels 


60
ULTA Management Compensation 


Incentivizes Overbuilding
62


Compensation Structure Incentivizes 


Overbuilding


 In FY 08, management was compensated on ROIC and EBT


 FY 08 ROIC misses the target


 Removed ROIC target in subsequent years


In fiscal 2008, our bonus plan paid out based on EBT and return on invested capital (ROIC) targets 
weighted 70%-30% respectively. The compensation committee decided to change the bonus 
structure in 2009 based on input from Mr. L’Heureux and confirmed with Towers Perrin as to the 
trends in setting bonus targets in early 2009, recognizing the difficult economic environment at 
the time, especially for retail companies. 


(Proxy Statement, 05/07/10)
63


Compensation Structure Incentivizes 


Overbuilding


 Since FY 08, ULTA management has been compensated solely on: adjusted EBT


 Peers typically use more than one metric to determine incentive compensation


 Management required to grow EBT at extremely high rates to receive bonus, 
demanding high rate of store base expansion


 Compensation is highly dependent on growth while ignoring margins, earnings 
quality, and return on invested capital


 Growth dependent compensation incentivizes additional store openings, 
potentially at detriment of business as a whole


 Saturated store base will make adjusted EBT growth more difficult
ULTA Has Low Executive Ownership


Source: ULTA most recent proxy; most recent 10-Q; September 2015 CEO Form 4 


 ULTA management has very low ownership


 CEO owns only 44,540 shares


 CFO owns 23,887


 Chief Merchandising Officer owns 14,674


 Chief Human Resources Officer owns 11,446


 Chief Marketing Officer owns 7,817


 Top five named executive officers own approximately 0.2% 


 Based on 64.196 mm diluted shares in the latest 10-Q


 Majority of executive compensation/wealth comes from salary and bonus


 Bonus dependent on EBT growth


 Lower ownership levels creates environment wherein management has no vested 
interest in the long term health of the business.


64



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1403568/000119312515141953/d909875ddef14a.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1403568/000119312515394322/d26958d10q.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1340358/000120919115071221/xslF345X03/doc4.xml
Competitors’ Managements Are More 


Broadly Compensated


Source: most recent proxies on file with SEC or SEDAR (for HBC.TO); Annual Statement for LVMH (Sephora) 


 ULTA’s management comp based on only one metric, while long-standing and 
shareholder-approved, is very unusual compared to the sample of 18 public competitors 


65
It’s A Long Way Down 


from Growth to Value
Analysts Are Completely Wrong on the 


ULTA “Growth Story”


Source: Various Wall Street reports, Prescience Point research opinions
67
“Growth Story” Retail is the Wrong 


Comparable Group


Source: Bloomberg as of Friday Feb 12, 2016, Prescience Point estimates 


 Wall Street loves ULTA:


 Valuation-per-store is near all-time peak levels


 Average price target of $192.44 (20% upside) and 13 BUY/9 HOLD/0 SELL ratings


 ULTA is bundled with a handful of growth retailers


 These firms are generally much smaller in market cap and store base


 These firms are growing store base high teens on avg, not just above 10% like ULTA


 ULTA IS NO LONGER A GROWTH COMPANY! In less than twelve months, ULTA will have opened 
97.4% of its possible stores location based on its own initial guidance; further, based on our 
analysis, it has already hit a saturation point. 


68
We Believe ULTA has 47% Downside 


Assessed Against its “True” Comp Group


Source: Bloomberg, Prescience Point estimates; SHLD not used due to negative metrics; RGS and PERF due to micro cap size and LVMH (Sephora) due to 


Sephora’s small size relative to the conglomerate 


 ULTA will re-rate to true peer group as investors become aware of:


 Store saturation, low quality store openings, and increased cannibalization


 SSS reaches inflection point and revenue growth collapses


 Inventory problems and reduced fixed cost leverage pressure margins


 ULTA is not a growth company; we believe re-rate will be quick and PERMANENT


Price Target on FYE Jan 2017 P/E: $84 per share (47% Downside)


69
Conservative “Steady-State” Model Points 


to Intrinsic Value Implying 42% Downside


Source: Prescience Point estimates 


 ULTA has 42% downside at its 1,200 store potential even given generous assumptions about 
“steady state” sales per store, ecommerce growth, and margins
 Prescience Point believes that 1,200 stores is unrealistic, while margins will decline from inventory 


pressures and ecommerce penetration 


 13.0x “steady state” EPS multiple based on a small discount from the 14.8x F P/E of true comps


70


Price Target on Steady State Valuation: $92 per share (42% Downside)
Valuation-Per-Store Has Skyrocketed Despite Store 


Count Closer to Potential, Store Quality Deterioration


Source: Prescience Point estimates 


 Paradoxically, ULTA’s market cap per store has quadrupled since 2010 despite 
its store base so much closer to saturation


71
Several Recent Major Disappointments from 


Retail “Growth Story” Stocks 


Source: Prescience Point estimates 


 Similar retail “growth story” stocks have disappointed investors in the recent 
past when the “growth story” sputters 


72
Appendix
74


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company websites accessed via desktop browser
75


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company websites accessed via desktop browser
76


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company websites accessed via desktop browser
77


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company websites accessed via desktop browser
78


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company websites accessed via desktop browser
79


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company websites accessed via desktop browser
80


Price comparisons: ULTA vs AMZN


Source: company website accessed via desktop browser
