THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Prescience Point LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. This is 
not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. You should do your own research and due diligence before 
making any investment decisions with respect to the securities covered herein. Forward-looking statement and projections 
are inherently susceptible to uncertainty and involve many risks (known and unknown) that could cause actual results to 
differ materially from expected results. You should assume we have a short interest in Enphase Energy stock and therefore 
stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument declines. Please refer to our full disclaimer 
located on the last page of this report. 


S m 
 











Former ENPH Employee #1: The current market position attained by the company and its stellar revenues are all thanks to 
inflated numbers…From my vantage point, it appears that the entire efforts are on to pump up the revenues, push up the stock 
price, cash in and milk the cow dry, before this company too hurtles the SunEdison way towards bankruptcy…. 
 
Former ENPH Employee #2: There was a strong rumor in the company last year that this growth is largely unrealistic and 
manipulated. The business has undoubtedly grown over the 2018-19 cycle…But most employees that I spoke to told me that 
the numbers just don’t add up 
 
Former ENPH Employee #3: Per the GAAP, these deferred revenues should be in the liabilities corner of the balance sheet. But 
what Yang and Eric under Badri Kothandaraman are doing is overstating income by treating deferred revenue as earned 
revenue by recognizing revenue before it is actually earned…It is like a pyramid scheme which cannot stop, and if it does, the 
entire accounting process will completely unravel…there were many questions I asked about the deferred revenue system 
which to me were appearing to be extra ordinary accounting practices……(I) was told to shut up and comply… 








ENPH Offshores Finance & Accounting Functions At The End Of FY'18,
Revenue Suddenly Explodes (?!)


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.


(14.6%) 


(5.7%) 


(13.1%) (12.1%) 


27.8% 


1.6% 
1.3% 


15.8% 


43.1% 


76.7% 


130.8% 
127.6% 


105.2% 


(40.0%)


(20.0%)


--


20.0%


40.0%


60.0%


80.0%


100.0%


120.0%


140.0%


Yo
Y 


R
ev


en
u


e 
G


ro
w


th


ENPH Offshores Key 
F&A Functions To 


India in Q4'18


ENPHASE ENERGY, INC. 
NASDAQ: ENPH 


TARGET PRICE: $1.01  


ENPHASE ENERGY, INC. 
NASDAQ: ENPH 


TARGET PRICE: DELISTED
Prescience Point Research Opinions: 


 At least $205.3m of ENPH’s reported FY’19 US revenue is fabricated, and a significant portion of its 
international revenue is fabricated as well 


 Most, if not all, of the 2,080 Bps expansion in ENPH’s gross margin since Q2’17 is also fabricated 
 Deloitte should launch an in-depth investigation of ENPH’s accounting practices 
 Regulatory and law enforcement agencies with subpoena power should launch a full 


investigation of the Company, its accounting, its disclosures and trading by insiders 
 The Board of Directors should establish an independent committee to examine the findings and 


analyses presented in this report 


Research Highlights: 
 At the end of FY’18, ENPH curiously offshored key finance & accounting (“F&A”) functions to India 
 According to former employees based in India, ENPH is using its offshore F&A team to assist in 


cooking the Company’s books at the direction of US executives 
 ENPH has stacked its executive teams in both the US and India with numerous loyal, former 


colleagues from Cypress and SunEdison, seemingly to create an environment conducive to fraud 
 According to former employees, Ahmad Chatila, the disgraced former SunEdison CEO, is working 


behind-the-scenes for ENPH and is alleged to be “running the show from the sidelines at Enphase” 
 Almost all the former employees our investigators spoke with either claimed or believed that 


ENPH’s financials are fiction. Numerous current employees are alleged to be similarly skeptical 
 According to former employees, a significant portion of ENPH’s astronomical growth over the past 


two years is attributable to improper deferred revenue accounting practices 
 According to an employee of a distributor in India, his/her company severed its ties with ENPH 


based on its belief that ENPH was working directly with installers to fraudulently inflate invoices 
 According to a solar industry participant in India, employee turnover in ENPH’s Bangalore office is an astronomical 70% annually – 


this is a clear symptom, in our view, of ENPH’s alleged book cooking and apparently toxic work culture 
 ENPH’s largest shareholder suspiciously sold his entire 11% stake in the span of just one day on May 22nd, 2020 which is right around 


the time our private investigation was concluding.  We believe he sold because he learned of the existence our private 
investigation. 


 ENPH executives and board members appear to have caught wind of our private investigation as well, based on their urgent sale 
of a massive 2.4m shares, amounting to $120.9m, in open market dispositions in a span of just 15 days from June 1st, 2020 to June 
15th, 2020 – an admission of guilt? 


 The nearly impossible reduction in ENPH’s unit costs or cost of revenue / watt from Q3’18 to Q3’19 of 23.6%, or 37.6% on a tariff-adj. 
basis, amounts to proof, in our view, that the Company’s reported gross margin is just as, if not more, inflated than its revenue 


 Wood Mackenzie data shows that ENPH’s market share declined by 518 Bps from 25.4% in FY’17 to 20.3% in FY’19, which directly 
contradicts the parabolic revenue growth ENPH has reported – proof, in our view, that its reported revenue is grossly inflated 


 Large distributors of ENPH products in the US, accounting for an estimated 69.5% of the distributor market, reported growth in ENPH 
product sales and market share changes which were far below and did not align with the Company’s reported US revenue growth 
– yet more proof, in our view, that ENPH’s reported revenue is grossly inflated 


 Egregious accounting discrepancies and irregularities in ENPH’s financial reports amounts to proof, in our view that its revenue 
and gross margin in Q1’18 and Q2’18 were significantly inflated by improper deferred revenue accounting 


 In 2018, ENPH apparently acquired ActivStor, which was a startup co-founded by one of its own employees – a Cypress and 
SunEdison alum who also attended the same college as CEO Kothandaraman.  Alarmingly, this transaction was not disclosed in 
ENPH’s SEC filings, and the amount paid for this acquisition was completely excluded from its financial statements 


 ENPH’s deferred revenue accounting in Q4 2019 and Q1 2020 does not appear to reconcile with GAAP 
 ENPH’s reported safe harbor revenue from Q3’19 to Q1’20 of $88.9m was suspiciously large and is almost double the amount 


reported by competitor SolarEdge on a % of revenue basis 
 SEDG’s former CEO and a mainstream financial journalist recently called ENPH’s revenue growth into question 
 Former CFO Bert Garcia suddenly resigned in June 2018, right around the time when ENPH’s apparent fraudulent accounting 


practices appear to have begun 


DATE OF REPORT 
6/17/2020 


SHARE PRICE 
$52.76 


52-WK HI / LOW 
$16.15 / $70.36 


AVG DAILY VOLUME 
6.0m 


FULLY DIL. SHARES 
138.1m 


MARKET CAP 
$7.3Bn 


DEBT + WARRANY LIAB. 
$433.3m 


ENTERPRISE VALUE 
$7.2Bn
TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Introduction 4 


Background 6 


ENPH’s Reported Financials Are Fiction, Based On The Findings Of Our Private Investigation 7 


ENPH’s Largest Shareholder Completely Cashes Out On May 20th: We Believe He Learned Of 
The Existence Of Our Private Investigation 22 


ENPH Executives And Board Members Have Also Been Desperately Liquidating Shares In June – 
Proof, In Our View, That The Existence Of Our Investigation Leaked And That Our Findings Are 
Accurate 22 


Our Additional Diligence Further Confirms, In Our View, That ENPH’s Reported Financials Are 
Fabricated And Grossly Inflated 24 


SEDG’s Former CEO And A Mainstream Financial Journalist Have Expressed Skepticism About 
ENPH’s Reported Financials 51 


Revisiting The Sudden Resignation Of Former CFO Bert Garcia In 2018 53 


Public Interest Statement 53 


Disclaimer 55
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 4


Introduction 


Prescience Point is short Enphase Energy (“ENPH” or the “Company”) because we believe the Company’s financial statements filed with the 
SEC are fiction.  Based on our research, we estimate that at least $205.3m of its reported US revenue in FY 2019 was fabricated.  Based on 
statements provided by former employees and other solar industry participants, it appears that the Company inflated its international 
revenue significantly as well.  We also believe that most, if not all, of the enormous 2,080 Bps expansion in the Company’s gross margin 
during Kothandaraman’s tenure as CEO – from 18.4% in Q2 2017 to 39.2% in Q1 2020 - is fiction.  We believe government bodies should 
investigate ENPH, Deloitte should launch an in-depth investigation of the Company’s accounting practices, and the Board of Directors 
should establish an independent committee to examine the findings and analyses presented in this report. 
 
In our initial reports on ENPH published in 2018 (here, here), we provided what we believed to be proof that ENPH had used improper deferred 
revenue accounting to significantly inflate its reported revenue and gross margins.  Unfortunately, our warnings fell on deaf ears, and in 
the almost two years since our initial report, ENPH’s share price has continued to skyrocket as its reported financial performance has 
become increasingly disconnected from reality. 
 
A breakthrough in our research of ENPH occurred in late 2019 when we were told by a former ENPH employee that the Company had, 
peculiarly, offshored many of its key finance and accounting (“F&A”) functions to its India-based office in late 2018.  As past accounting 
scandals have shown, offshore entities can and have been used as a tool to help companies perpetrate fraud.  Given this, and our previous 
reservations about ENPH’s accounting practices, we viewed this as a significant red flag that warranted further investigation. 
 
To learn more about ENPH’s India-based operations, we hired a reputable third-party private investigation firm to conduct on-the-ground 
research in India.  During its weeks-long investigation, our private investigators spoke with numerous former ENPH employees and solar 
industry participants based in India.  The findings of this investigation confirmed our suspicions and uncovered numerous troubling 
revelations about the Company’s accounting and business practices.  These findings include the following: 


 
 According to former employees, ENPH is using its India-based F&A team to assist the Company in carrying out its allegedly 


fraudulent accounting practices, under the direction of the US executive team 
 ENPH has stacked its executive teams in both the US and India with numerous close, former colleagues from Cypress and 


SunEdison, seemingly for the purpose of creating a team of ‘yes-men’ and an environment conducive to fraud.  These hires 
troublingly include Ahmad Chatila, the disgraced former SunEdison CEO, who is purportedly working behind-the-scenes for ENPH 
and has a considerable amount of influence within the Company 


 Almost all of the former employees our private investigators spoke with either claimed or believed that the Company's financial 
performance was fabricated.  Our investigators were also told that numerous current employees are similarly skeptical about 
ENPH's reported financials 


 According to former employees, a large portion of the Company’s astronomical growth over the past two years is attributable to 
improper deferred revenue accounting practices which appear to have become more severe since our initial reports.  
Furthermore, according to an employee of an ENPH distributor in India, his/her company severed its relationship with ENPH based 
on its belief that ENPH was circumventing them and working directly with installers to fraudulently inflate invoices. 


 According to an industry participant with knowledge of ENPH’s India-based operations, employee turnover in the Company’s 
Bangalore office is an alarming 70% annually.  We believe ENPH’s apparent book cooking and toxic work culture is likely the driving 
force behind the mass exodus of its India employees. 


Meanwhile, ENPH executives and board members, as well as its previous largest shareholder, appear to have learned of the existence of 
our private investigation and are desperately trying to unload their shares before the ship sinks.  In the span of just four days from June 1st, 
2020 to June 4th, 2020, ENPH executives sold an unprecedented 254,097 shares worth a whopping $13.7m in open market dispositions, which 
significantly exceeds the 187,508 or $3.9m worth of shares ENPH executives had sold in the almost 2.5 years prior.  Additionally, board 
member TJ Rodgers sold an astonishing 2.0m shares worth $98.1m, representing almost 60% of his total holdings, in open market
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 5


dispositions in the span of just four days from June 8th, 2020 to June 11th, 2020.  Furthermore, Ben Kortlang disposed of 180,000 ENPH shares 
worth $9.0m, representing a whopping 65% of his total holdings, in open market dispositions in the span of just one day on June 15th.  Lastly, 
Chilean entrepreneur Isidoro Quirogo, who was ENPH’s largest shareholder with an ~11% stake worth more than $800m, sold his entire 
investment in the span of just one day on May 20th, 2020. 
 
Suspiciously, these frantic and unprecedented share sales by ENPH executives, ENPH board members, and Quirogo occurred within days 
of the completion of our private investigation in late May.  We do not believe this is a coincidence.  Instead, we believe that these parties 
caught wind of our private investigation and were in a panicked rush to dump $millions of shares and cash-in before our findings were 
made public, indicating that the troubling findings of our private investigation are accurate. 
 
But wait, there’s more.  Our further diligence of ENPH went far beyond our private investigation and included a thorough examination of 
ENPH’s reported financial statements and disclosures, conversations with several solar industry experts, conversations with the largest 
distributors of ENPH products and an examination of solar industry datasets and other online information sources.  From this additional 
research and analysis, we uncovered multiple, additional smoking guns and numerous other red flags which, in our view, confirm that 
ENPH’s financials are fabricated and grossly inflated.  The additional smoking guns we uncovered include, 
 


 the nearly impossible reduction in ENPH’s unit costs or cost of revenue per watt from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019 of 23.6%, or 37.6% on a 
tariff-adjusted basis, which puzzlingly occurred during the same time period that Section 301 tariffs of 25% were levied on ENPH’s 
microinverters.  We cannot recall ever seeing a company reduce its manufacturing / unit costs by such a large amount in such 
a short period of time. 


 the data we received from large MLPE distributors in the US, accounting for an estimated 69.5% of the distributor market, who 
reported growth in ENPH product sales and market share changes which were far below and did not align with the Company’s 
reported growth, 


 the large disconnect between Wood Mackenzie MLPE market share data, which shows that ENPH’s market share of US residential 
solar installations actually declined by 518 Bps from FY 2017 to FY 2019, and the more than doubling in ENPH’s reported US revenue 
during that same timeframe.  When asked to provide a reason for this large discrepancy, representatives from Wood Mackenzie 
could not provide one, and instead pointed us to a recent Financial Times article that called into question ENPH’s reported revenue 
growth. and 


 egregious accounting irregularities and discrepancies which, in our view, confirm that ENPH used improper deferred revenue 
accounting to significantly inflate its financial performance in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018 


Following the publishing of our initial reports, ENPH management successfully explained away the egregious accounting issues we 
uncovered to its auditors, as evidenced by Deloitte’s baffling decision to issue an unqualified audit opinion in both FY 2018 and FY 2019.  
However, given the overwhelming evidence of fraudulent behavior presented in this report, which is backed by numerous former 
employees, numerous solar industry participants, a forensic accountant, and reliable third-party data sources, we believe that this time 
will be different, and that this sham turnaround story will soon meet its inevitable, dire fate. 
 
We hope that current and future investors and creditors familiarize themselves with the risks we have addressed and take immediate 
action to preserve the value of their holdings. We also hope that the NASDAQ, regulatory agencies, and Deloitte take action to protect 
investors.  We believe that the SEC and Deloitte should launch a full-scale investigation into ENPH’s accounting and business practices.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 6


Background 


The genesis of ENPH’s “turnaround” occurred when the Company hired Badri Kothandaraman (“Kothandaraman”) – who had worked 
previously for around 21 years at Cypress Semiconductors (“Cypress”) – as COO and then subsequently promoted him to CEO in September 
2017. 
 
Prior to Kothandaraman’s arrival, ENPH had struggled to grow sales and turn a profit due to increasingly intense competition from rivals 
like SolarEdge (“SEDG”). Upon taking over as CEO, Kothandaraman announced his intention to return the Company to profitability by cutting 
costs during the first 18 months of his tenure. With this in mind, he told investors that he expected the Company to reach 30% gross margins, 
reduce OpEx to 20% of revenue, and reach 10% operating margins by Q4 2018. The company dubbed this goal as its 30-20-10 plan. 
 
During the first three quarters of Kothandaraman’s tenure as CEO, ENPH’s gross margin expanded an astonishing 43.7% or 804 Bps from 
18.4% in Q2 2017 to 26.5% in Q1 2018.  Investors responded to this rapid turnaround in performance by frantically bidding up the Company’s 
share price.  Buyside analysts were just as enthusiastic, publishing bullish report after bullish report with ever-increasing price targets. 
 
We, however, were much more skeptical.  In our initial reports on ENPH published in 2018, we provided analysis that proved, in our view, that 
the reported increase in the Company’s gross margin from Q2 2017 to Q1 2018 was a sham and was largely attributable to questionable 
and potentially fraudulent accounting practices. We estimated that ENPH’s reported gross margin in Q1 2018 was inflated by 40.7% or 765 
Bps, and that absent accounting shenanigans, its gross margin had expanded just 39 Bps from 18.4% in Q2 2017 to 18.8% in Q1 2018. 
 
Our warnings largely fell on deaf ears.  In the almost two years since our initial reports were published, ENPH shares have continued their 
meteoric rise as investors and buyside analysts have continued to blindly cheer on the Company’s increasingly logic-defying results.  Since 
the release of our last report on August 18, 2018, ENPH shares have increased by 979% from $4.89 to $52.76.  Overall, since Kothandaraman 
took over as CEO on September 6, 2017, ENPH shares have increased by a whopping 4,653% from $1.11 to $52.76! 
 





ENPH's Share Price Has Increased An Astonishing 4,653% Since Kothandaraman Took Over As CEO


Source: Share price data provided by Yahoo Finance.


$0.00


$10.00


$20.00


$30.00


$40.00


$50.00


$60.00


$70.00


$80.00


$52.76
as  of


6/12/20
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 7


While the initial increase in ENPH’s share price during Kothandaraman’s tenure was primarily driven by an astonishing increase in gross 
margin, the increase in its share price over the past few quarters has been driven by an even more astonishing increase in revenue.  From 
FY 2018 to FY 2019, the Company’s revenue grew by 97.5% from $316.2m to $624.3m. The vast majority of this growth was driven by sales to 
the US market – As disclosed in its FY 2019 10-K, revenue from the US market grew by 138.4% from $219.6m in FY 2018 to $523.6m in FY 2019. 
 
The large increase in ENPH’s reported revenue has been quite baffling when compared against the overall growth rate of the US residential 
solar sector – In 2019, the YoY growth in ENPH’s revenue to the US market was 9.0x higher than the overall growth of US residential market 
as reported by Wood MacKenzie (138.4% vs. 15.4%). 
 


 
 
Given this puzzling disparity between ENPH’s reported growth vs. the overall industry growth, we suspected ENPH’s logic-defying revenue 
growth was, like the astonishing increase in its gross margin in FY 2018, too good be true.  As we will detail, the findings of our research over 
the past few months has, in our view, confirmed that our suspicions were correct. 


ENPH’s Reported Financials Are Fiction, Based On The Findings Of Our 
Private Investigation 


One of the biggest breakthroughs in our research of ENPH occurred in late 2019 when a former ENPH employee told us that the Company 
had, peculiarly, moved many of its key finance and accounting functions to its India-based office toward the end of FY 2018.  As 
demonstrated by past accounting scandals, including the Saba Software accounting scandal of 2014, offshore entities can and have often 
been used by companies as a tool to help perpetrate fraud.  Because of this, and our prior reservations about the Company’s accounting 
practices, we viewed its decision to offshore F&A functions to India as a severe red flag. 
 
To learn more about ENPH’s India-based operations, and in particular the F&A functions being performed offshore, we hired a reputable, 
third-party private investigation firm to conduct thorough on-the-ground research in India. Over the course of several weeks, our 
investigators in India interviewed numerous former ENPH employees, as well as several solar industry participants who have conducted 
business with ENPH.  What they uncovered amounts to proof, in our view, that ENPH’s reported financials are fiction. 
 


ENPH's Reported US Revenue Growth In FY 2019 Was 9.0x Higher
Than The Growth In The US Residential Solar Sector


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.  Wood Mackenzie solar data.


138.4%


15.4%


0.0%


20.0%


40.0%


60.0%


80.0%


100.0%


120.0%


140.0%


160.0%


Growth in ENPH Reported US Revenue Growth in US Residential Solar
Installations


Yo
Y 


G
ro


w
th


 in
 F


Y 
20


19
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 8


To be more specific, the former employees and industry participants our investigators spoke with confirmed what we suspected – that 
the India-based F&A team was assisting in ENPH’s book cooking – and also revealed a number of other troubling revelations about the 
Company’s accounting and business practices.  The key findings of our private investigation, which are more thoroughly detailed in the 
sections below, include the following: 


 
 According to former employees, ENPH’s offshore F&A team in India is assisting in the Company’s apparent book cooking:: Former 


employees told our investigators that ENPH is using its offshore F&A team to help perpetrate its allegedly fraudulent accounting 
practices, under the direction of the US executive team.  This has apparently helped the Company take its book cooking to new 
heights, as evidenced by the parabolic increase in its revenue since the India-based F&A team was established at the end of FY 
2018. 


 ENPH has stacked its executive teams in the US and India with ‘Yes-Men’ from Cypress and SunEdison, including with disgraced 
former SunEdison CEO Ahmad Chatila: According to former employees, Ahmad Chatila (“Chatila”) is allegedly working for ENPH in 
some type of consultant or unofficial executive role, and apparently has a substantial amount of influence within the Company.  
In addition to Chatila, ENPH has stacked its executive teams in both the US and India with numerous other close, former colleagues 
from Cypress and SunEdison, seemingly for the purpose of creating an environment conducive to fraud.  Former employees claim 
that these executives are very tight-knit and secretive, and have, at times, reprimanded or even fired certain employees who 
questioned their accounting and business practices. 


 The belief that ENPH’s reported financials are likely fiction appears to be widespread amongst both former and current 
employees: Almost all of the former employees our private investigators spoke with either claimed or believed that the 
Company’s financial performance was fabricated.  Our investigators were also told that numerous current employees are 
similarly skeptical about ENPH’s reported financials. 


 According to former employees, ENPH is using improper deferred revenue accounting to inflate its financial performance: Former 
employees indicated that a significant portion of the Company’s astronomical growth over the past two years is attributable to 
improper deferred revenue accounting.  Our investigators were also told that, as part of its deferred revenue accounting scheme, 
the Company may be “tweaking” some of its contracts, enabling it to recognize revenue prior to the actual service being provided.   


 A distributor in India severed its relationship with ENPH based on its belief that ENPH was fraudulently inflating invoices: According 
to an employee of an ENPH distributor in India, his/her company severed its relationship with ENPH based on its belief that ENPH 
was circumventing them and working directly with installers to fraudulently inflate invoices.  We believe this suspected practice 
of forging invoices likely extends beyond what this one distributor experienced. 


 Employee turnover in ENPH’s India office is alarmingly high: According to an industry participant with knowledge of ENPH’s India-
based operations, employee turnover in the Company’s Bangalore office is an astronomical 70% annually.  We believe ENPH’s 
apparent book cooking and toxic work culture are likely the driving force behind the mass exodus of its India employees. 


ENPH Moves Key Accounting Functions To India, Revenue Suddenly Explodes  


Our investigators in India spoke with several former ENPH employees with detailed knowledge of the Company’s India-based operations.  
They were told that ENPH moved key F&A functions to its India office at the end of FY 2018, confirming what we were previously told by a 
former ENPH employee based in the US.  Our investigators were also told that the Company is using its offshore F&A team to help fabricate 
its financial performance at the direction of the US executive team.  Based on the explosion in ENPH’s revenue growth since the end of FY 
2018, it appears that this has helped the Company take its book cooking, which we believe began in Q1 2018 (as detailed in our initiation 
report), to the next level.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 9





 
 ENPH has greatly expanded its presence in India during Kothandaraman’s tenure: According to corporate records in India, ENPH 


established its wholly-owned India-based subsidiary – Enphase Solar Energy Private Limited – on July 24th, 2017.  Our investigators 
were told that the Company has greatly expanded its presence in India under Kothandaraman and has outsourced an 
increasing number of key business functions to its office in Bangalore including human resources, engineering, marketing, pricing 
and finance and accounting.  They were also told that India is now one of the Company’s largest sites in the world with over 300 
employees.  This is confirmed by ENPH’s May 2020 investor presentation: 
 





 ENPH offshored key F&A functions to India at the end of FY 2018: Several former employees told our investigators that ENPH moved 
key F&A functions to its office in Bangalore at the end of 2018.  Our investigators were told that this team provides support for both 
the US-based parent company, as well as the domestic Indian business. 
 


 The India-based F&A team is assisting the US executives with their alleged book cooking, according to former employees: So, what 
tasks does the India-based team perform for the parent company?  Based on statements provided by former ENPH employees, 


ENPH's Revenue Growth Has Exploded Since Offshoring F&A Functions


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.


(14.6%) 


(5.7%) 


(13.1%) (12.1%) 


27.8% 


1.6% 
1.3% 


15.8% 


43.1% 


76.7% 


130.8% 
127.6% 


105.2% 


(40.0%)


(20.0%)


--


20.0%


40.0%


60.0%


80.0%


100.0%


120.0%


140.0%


Yo
Y 


R
ev


en
u


e 
G


ro
w


th


ENPH Offshores Key 
F&A Functions To 


India in Q4'18
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 10


it appears that one of the responsibilities of the F&A team in India is to assist in ‘cooking the books’ based on instructions provided 
to them by CFO Eric Branderiz, CAO Mandy Yang and other US executives.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from 
a summary of these conversations. 
 


The previous Director of Finance (of the India office) Raman was handling both front office and 
back office F&A. It is known to everyone in the company that he was given a very handsome 
severance package last year as a reward for complying with the regular and irregular 
instructions in writing the books per whatever was told to him by Mandy Yang CFO from the US. 
 
They expected [REDACTED] to comply with the instructions flowing from the corporate office, but 
[REDACTED] was not at all comfortable with their accounting practices…The real scoop is, what 
does the back office exactly do? To be clear, the back office does not need a CA (chartered 
accountant). It just needs data entry operators while Mandy, Eric and their team guides them 
from the US. 
 
Everything is micromanaged by the CEO Kothandaraman from US and the MD (in India) Sunil 
Thamaran, a docile & servile Malayali, simply executes his orders… There is hardly anything right 
with this company. Their HR function is in total disarray, there is no financial transparency. 
 
The company moved the F&A function to India in 2018…Not that all (the accounting) was kosher 
under the previous leadership, but it became more ingenious after Badri took over the reins with 
a possible agenda of duping investors. 


 
 Offshore vehicles can be used as a tool for companies to perpetrate fraud: As past accounting scandals have shown, the use of 


offshore operations can provide a vehicle for companies to more easily perpetrate fraud and avoid the scrutiny of auditors.  SEC 
Pacific Regional Director Jina L. Choi highlighted the pitfalls of offshore operations when discussing the SEC’s charges against 
Saba Software executives in 2014:  
 


Saba Software used off-shore operations to cut costs, but also cut corners on its internal 
controls over financial reporting…Weak internal controls create greater opportunity for 
accounting fraud, and investors are left holding the bag. 
 


Ahmad Chatila: The Secret Mastermind Behind ENPH’s Allegedly Fraudulent Behavior? 


In our August 2018 report on ENPH, we disclosed that an individual in the solar industry had told us that Ahmad Chatila – the disgraced 
former CEO of SunEdison and architect of the largest US bankruptcy of 2016 – was working behind-the-scenes in some type of executive 
or consultant role for ENPH.  Given Chatila’s troubled past at SunEdison, we found this claim to be highly disturbing. 
 
Unfortunately for ENPH shareholders, our investigators in India were told by former employees that this claim is true.    They were also told 
that Chatila has a highly prominent and influential role within the Company.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 11


To further elaborate, one former ENPH employee told our investigators that Chatila was secretly running the Company without the general 
public’s knowledge.  The former employee also spoke negatively about Chatila’s past, and stated that Chatila’s over-reliance on debt, 
inflation of revenue and book cooking is what led to SunEdison’s downfall.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a 
summary of this conversation. 
 


…Ahmad Chatila the disgraced CEO of SunEdison a solar power company that went bankrupt in 
2016, all due to Chatila’s over reliance on debt, inflating revenues and cooking up the books. 
Chatila, is in fact running the show from the sidelines at Enphase.  


 
Another former employee indicated to our investigators that Chatila was an owner of ENPH, and that he/she believed Chatila was going 
to run the Company into the ground in a similar fashion as SunEdison.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary 
of this conversation. 
 


The first thing that I can tell you at the very outset is that Enphase is virtually a company owned 
by Ahmad Chatila, the disgraced former CEO of SunEdison. It is literally his back-door entry into 
the solar energy business…How do I know this for certain? Well, pull out any employee from the 
office and ask him and he will happily tell you the open secret in the company…Ahmad Chatila 
is a mastermind. He got rich with SunEdison, running the company to the ground in the process. 
He is doing the same to Enphase. 


 
So why is Chatila’s apparently deep involvement with ENPH so troubling? 
 
As has already been alluded to, Chatila was the former CEO of SunEdison, a solar project developer based in the US.  With Chatila at the 
helm, SunEdison employed a reckless, debt-fueled growth-at-all-costs business strategy which ultimately led its demise as the business 
collapsed under the weight of $billions of liabilities.  SunEdison was the largest US bankruptcy of 2016. 
 
Chatila and other SunEdison executives were investigated by the SEC and DOJ, and multiple former employees claimed in whistleblower 
suits that senior management had intentionally misled investors about the company’s rapidly deteriorating financial condition.  The below 
extract from a March 2017 RightingInjustice article provides more detail. 
 


Even as the company’s situation grew bleaker, senior management misled investors about the 
company’s financial standing, the whistleblowers allege. The company pressured executives to 
revise their internal projections to look more optimistic “even as the company was 
hemorrhaging cash, delaying payments and seeking emergency sources of funding,” according 
to the Wall Street Journal. 
 
In November 2015, an internal report circulated showing SunEdison had about $90 million in 
available cash, yet that same day a presentation to investors said the company had $1.4 billion 
in cash. In another internal meeting, the company projected it would spend $1.3 billion over the 
next six months. At a board meeting a week later, however, projected expenses were set at $650 
million.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 12


Chatila and other executives were also accused of inappropriately diverting $231m of cash from Terraform Global – one of SunEdison’s 
solar Yieldco partners – to SunEdison.  The below extract is from a April 2016 Real Money article.  
 


On Friday, TerraForm Global filed suit against SunEdison and several of its executives, including 
CEO Ahmad Chatila and former CFO Brian Wuebbels, in Delaware's Court of Chancery. The suit 
calls out SunEdison for breach of fiduciary duty and misappropriation of $231 million. 
 
The suit alleges that SunEdison diverted $231 million from TerraForm Global to "prop up its 
flagging liquidity position" instead of funding renewable energy projects in India that were 
expected to be dropped down to the yieldco. 


 
Given this highly questionable behavior, it is not surprising that ENPH has tried to keep Chatila’s role within the Company a secret from 
market participants. 
 
ENPH Has Stacked Its Executive Team With ‘Yes Men’ From Cypress & SunEdison 


ENPH has filled its key executive positions in both the US and India primarily with loyal former colleagues from Cypress and SunEdison.  
Based on what former employees told our investigators, we believe the Company did so in order to help enable and conceal its allegedly 
fraudulent accounting practices. 
 


 ENPH has filled its executive team in the US with ex-colleagues from Cypress and SunEdison: Following the hiring of Kothandarman, 
the Company proceeded to replace most of its senior executive team in the US.  As shown in the table below, the majority of 
these new hires have been former colleagues from either Cypress or SunEdison. While current CFO Eric Branderiz (“Branderiz”) and 
Chief Accounting Officer Mandy Yang (“Yang”) did not previously work at either Cypress or SunEdison, both had previously worked 
at SunPower, whose microinverter business was acquired in FY 2018 by ENPH.  Both Branderiz and Yang also previously worked at 
Spansion, which was acquired by Cypress in 2015.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 13





 The newly installed CEO, CFO, CAO and COO have highly questionable backgrounds: Chatila is just one of many ENPH executives 
with a highly questionable background.  ENPH’s decision to hire and then subsequently promote Kothandaraman to CEO was 
quite puzzling given his uninspired professional history at Cypress, about which ENPH has troublingly lied about.  To be more 
specific, on the management bio section of its website, ENPH misleadingly claims that, as an executive VP at Cypress from 2011 to 
2016, Kothandaraman quadrupled the revenue of the data communications division. 
 


Before joining Enphase, Badri (Kothandaraman) served as executive vice president at Cypress 
Semiconductor, quadrupling revenue of the data communications division over four years and 
establishing Cypress as a market leader in USB-C and Internet-of-Things technologies. 


 
However, this is contradicted by Cypress’ own SEC filings which show that its revenue declined by 42.9% from $127.4m in FY 2011 to 
$72.8m in FY 2015.  We assume that the quadrupling of revenue ENPH is referring to is the result of Cypress’ acquisition of 
Broadcom’s IoT business in June 2016 which added $189m of annualized revenue to its data communications division, but even 
then, this would not have resulted in the quadrupling of revenue claimed in Kothandaraman’s bio.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 14





We are also troubled by the hiring and then subsequent promotion of Jeff McNeil (“McNeil) to COO given his prior history at 
Energous Corporation (“WATT”) which has been accused of misleading investors about the effectiveness of its technology and 
whose stock has fallen by around 90% since he joined ENPH in January 2018. 
 
Finally, CFO Branderiz and CAO Yang also share a history at Tesla which has been the subject of its own regulatory scrutiny.  
Branderiz served as CAO of Tesla from October 2016 to March 2018, while Mandy Yang served as worldwide controller of Tesla from 
February 2017 to September 2018.  Tesla has been accused of engaging in potentially improper accounting practices which 
include the sale of regulatory credits to increase its profits and questionable warranty expense accounting.  
 


 ENPH has filled its executive team in India with ex-colleagues from Cypress and SunEdison as well:  As shown in the table below, 
our investigators learned that the key executive positions in India are also filled primarily with former colleagues from Cypress 
and SunEdison.  This notably includes those executives who are responsible for managing the F&A operations in India. 
 


Source: Cypress FY 2015 and FY 2013 10-Ks.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 15





 The recently installed executives are extremely secretive and loyal to one another, according to former employees:  When 
speaking with our investigators, several former employees noted that the recently installed executives in the US and India are 
very tight-knit and loyal to one another.  One former employee described senior management as a “Cypress Old Boys club” and 
claimed that employees who are not from Cypress or SunEdison are treated very poorly by management.  The source also 
indicated that Chatila was likely the driving force behind Kothandaraman’s hiring as CEO.  Provided below are some of the 
relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


…most employees, those who didn’t join the company from a parallel entry system from Cypress 
Semi-Conductors, are treated miserably by the higher management, especially the CEO Kota 
(Kothandaraman) who is a rather uncouth & ungracious person who would not pass off as a 
leader in any other professional organization. Kota owes his position to Chatila…The senior 
management in the Enphase India office is basically a Cypress Old Boys (and girls) club. Pick up 
any key manager or Director and they will have a Cypress link. 


 
Another former employee further elaborated that most of the managers at the Company were “totally loyal” to both 
Kothandaraman, as well as to Sunil Thamaran (“Thamaran”) – the head of the India office.  He further noted that Kothandaraman 
and Thamaran are, in turn, loyal to Chatila.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 16


Kothandaraman and Thamaran share an interesting past having worked at Cypress Semi-
Conductors, a US based company founded by visionary inventor TJ Rodgers… Most managers at 
the top are totally loyal to Thamaran and Kota (Kothandaraman), who in turn are loyal to Chatila. 


 
Finally, a third former employee stated that the employees from Cypress and SunEdison were highly secretive and hardly 
interacted with any non-Cypress and SunEdison team members.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a 
summary of this conversation. 
 


The employees in these divisions are primarily ex Cypress-SunEdison staffers. They work 
differently, have their own groups, keep to themselves, almost furtively, and hardly interact 


 
 The recently installed executives have control over the F&A functions, while dissenting voices are largely silenced, according to 


former employees:  One former employee told our investigators that the key functions of the Company, including the F&A 
operations, are led by ex-Cypress and SunEdison employees.  The source further elaborated that the F&A team in India was 
previously headed by Raman Ramanarayanan, and is now headed by two former Cypress / SunEdison employees who report 
directly to Branderiz, the US CFO.  Senior US executives allegedly trust the new F&A heads because of their prior background at 
Cypress and SunEdison.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


If you review the company structure, the vital functions and PnL pillars are all headed by ex-
Cypress or SunEdison employees…Raman Ramanaryanan (was) the Director (of) Finance as 
there was no CEO as such of this office. The F&A functions, back office, are now handled by two 
Finance Managers…Both have ex SunEdison/Cypress background and are therefore trusted by 
the seniors in the USA. They report to the CFO directly in the US. 


 
The same former employee also told our investigators that no “outsider,” presumably meaning anyone who is not a part of or 
loyal to the ex-Cypress and SunEdison executives, is involved in the F&A operations.  As an example, that former employee stated 
that the executives who handle the “front office” finance operations in India – Ravi Joshi and Vijay Reddy – are not involved in the 
“back-end” F&A operations because neither is from Cypress or SunEdison, and thus not part of the loyalists of the Company.  
Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


No “outsider” is involved in the company’s F&A function. They have recently appointed a Director 
Finance, Ravi Joshi, to control the front office finance and another CA Vijay Reddy supports him 
in front office accounting. The two are not involved in the back-end F& A at all as they are not 
part of the loyalists. 


  
Another former employee claimed that Chatila and other executives have reprimanded and even fired employees for 
questioning the Company’s ethics and accounting practices.  That former employee also told our investigators that mid-level 
managers have no say in the Company’s decision-making, and that their job is to simply execute orders given to them from the 
senior executives.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


It is basically Chatila’ s inner circle who determine politics in the office, openly put down people 
who question the ethics or accounting practices adopted or simply fire those questioning them 
too much, meanwhile they remain absolutely loyal to him…Mid-level managers [REDACTED] in
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 17


any pillar of the company, be it Operations, Order management, Planning or Engineering teams 
have no say in matters…are merely robots executing commands from the top. There is no 
process and no documentation whatsoever generated by the middle management. 


 
 ENPH’s incestuous hires were made for the purpose of helping to create an environment more conducive to fraud, in our view:  


Based on the above findings, we believe that ENPH’s hiring of numerous former colleagues from Cypress and SunEdison was not 
made out of simple nepotism.  Instead, we believe that ENPH made these hires to create an environment that is more conducive 
to fraud, and more specifically, to create a loyal network of close former colleagues who could be trusted to 1) obediently follow 
orders given to them by Kothandaraman & Co, and 2) keep the Company’s illicit activities a secret from any “non-loyalists” at the 
Company, as well as Deloitte and other parties. 


Former Employees Claim That ENPH’s Reported Financials Are Fiction 


Perhaps most telling about the legitimacy of ENPH’s reported financials is the fact that almost all of the former employees our private 
investigators spoke with either claimed or believed that the Company’s financial performance was fabricated.  Furthermore, based on 
what our investigators were told, it appears that numerous current employees are similarly skeptical about ENPH’s reported financials. 
 
For example, one former employee told our investigators in India that he/she believed that the Company’s reported growth does not make 
sense given that it is highly unlikely for a B2B business to grow at such a brisk pace.  This source also stated that several current employees 
agree with this assessment.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


You should know that Enphase itself does not provide any solar roofs or solar power accessories, 
which is where the money is to be made in this business, but sells its micro inverters and energy 
consumption software to the installers, not to the end consumer. This is not a B2C business and 
I simply can’t accept this exponential growth only in a B2B format. I can give you contact details 
of currently serving employees who would certainly back up my statements with as much vigor 


 
Another former ENPH employee told our investigators that the Company’s current revenue is ‘inflated’ and does not line up with the amount 
of work he/she has observed being performed, and that he/she believed that management was pumping up the revenues to enrich 
themselves before the Company collapses. Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


There is an absolute lack of vision as there is no talk of any new product line, no plans to expand 
in the current market or fashion new strategies. The current market position attained by the 
company and its stellar revenues are all thanks to inflated numbers… From my vantage point , it 
appears that the entire efforts are on to pump up the revenues , push up the stock price, cash 
in and milk the cow dry, before this company too hurtles the SunEdison way towards 
bankruptcy…Of course, the company has sold many micro inverters and energy saving solutions 
to its installation partners, however the revenue earned, claimed in the balance sheets, does not 
add up with the kind or quantum of work we are doing. 


 
Finally, a third former ENPH employee told our investigators that the seven-fold increase of its India-based revenue had “shocked” almost 
all current employees with the exception of ex-Cypress and SunEdison employees, and that last year a “strong rumor” circulated within 
the Company that the reported growth was “unrealistic and manipulated.”  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a 
summary of this conversation.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 18





The seven-fold increase in the bottom line of the India based operations has shocked everyone 
within the company with the possible exception of ex Cypress and SunEdison staffers but I hear 
that a similar spike has been observed in all the geographies that Enphase operates from. There 
was a strong rumor in the company last year that this growth is largely unrealistic and 
manipulated. The business has undoubtedly grown over the 2018-19 cycle…But most employees 
that I spoke to told me that the numbers just don’t add up. 


 
ENPH Has Used Improper Deferred Revenue Accounting To Inflate Its Financial Performance, 
According To Former Employees 


In our initial reports on ENPH published in 2018, we provided proof, in our view, that the Company had used improper deferred revenue 
accounting to significantly inflate its reported revenue and gross margin.  Our private investigators in India spoke with former ENPH 
employees with knowledge of the Company’s accounting practices. Based on what our investigators were told, it appears that the analysis 
presented in our initial reports was accurate, and that the Company’s improper deferred revenue accounting has continued and 
apparently become more severe over the past two years. 
 


 ENPH’s adoption of ASC 606 at the beginning of FY 2018 almost tripled the size of its deferred revenue balance: On January 1, 2018, 
ENPH instituted a major accounting change upon adopting the new ASC 606 accounting standard. Prior to adopting ASC 606, 
ENPH deferred only the software portion of its Envoy revenue, while the hardware revenue was recognized at the time of sale.  
However, with the adoption of ASC 606, the Company is / was now deferring both the hardware and software portion of its Envoy 
revenue. 
 
Due to this change in accounting treatment for its Envoy hardware revenue, ENPH’s deferred revenue liabilities balance increased 
by $77.5m and almost tripled to $123.1m upon adoption of ASC 606.  As of the end of Q1 2020, ENPH’s total deferred revenue liabilities 
amounted to $145.2m. 
 


 A former employee claimed that ENPH is using its sizable deferred revenue balance as a tool to fabricate its financial 
performance:   Our investigators in India learned that, since adopting ASC 606, ENPH has been taking advantage of its much more 
sizable deferred revenue balance by using it as a tool to fabricate and significantly inflate its financial performance. 
 
A former employee with knowledge of ENPH’s accounting practices told our investigators that ENPH moved certain F&A functions 
at the end of 2018 to India in order to help enable its improper deferred revenue accounting practices under the guise of ASC 
606.  The source indicated that a significant portion of the $77.5m of deferred Envoy hardware revenue which ENPH added to its 
balance sheet upon adopting ASC 606 was prematurely recognized in FY 2018 and FY 2019, and that the improper recognition of 
this large amount of revenue was hidden or “not publicly declared” in its financial reports.  That former employee also claimed 
that the Company did a “similar sleight of hand” in Q1 2020 .  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary 
of this conversation. 
 


The F&A function in India that supports the US operations of Enphase Inc operates per the 
relatively new ASC 606 standards. The company moved the F&A function to India in 2018 to 
implement these standards. Previously, till the time the company was following ASC 605 under 
the previous CEO Nahi, this F&A function was in the US…Under ASC 606 the full consideration for
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 19


these (Envoy) products now represents a single product, a package deal of sorts, which is 
deferred and recognized over the estimated service period. 
 
Enphase makes no bones about using this accounting practice and has revealed as much in its 
SEC declarations. However, what is also true, and something that they have not publicly 
declared, is that the company moved USD 77.5 m from liabilities, where the deferred revenues 
from the hardware should have been, to the earned revenue counter in 2018-19. They have done 
a similar sleight of hand in FY 2020…   


 
 Another former employee claimed that ENPH is using improper deferred revenue accounting practices, seemingly confirming 


the other employee’s claims: Another former employee with knowledge of ENPH’s accounting practices told our investigators that 
executives had artificially boosted the Company’s financial performance by improperly recognizing deferred revenue before it 
was actually earned.  Further, the former employee seemed to suggest that a large portion of ENPH’s growth since 
Kothandaraman took over was attributable to improper deferred revenue accounting by stating that these accounting 
shenanigans were Kothandaraman’s “magic contribution to the Company’s turnaround.”  Provided below are some of the 
relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


…the accounting doctors hide behind a newly introduced accounting standard in the US, 
effective Jan 2018, called ASC 606 that allows tinkering with deferred revenue accounting 
mechanism. 
 
…the company had already instituted a major accounting change via the ASC 606. Prior to 
adopting this practice, and before Badri was promoted to CEO, Enphase deferred only the 
software portion of its sales…However, after the adoption of AS 606, the company has been 
deferring both the hardware and software portion of its Envoy revenue since Jan 18…This is Badri’s 
magic contribution to the company’s turnaround.  
  
Deferred revenue is basically the advance payments that Enphase receives for orders of its 
inverters and software services that are to be delivered or performed in the future. Per the GAAP, 
these deferred revenues should be in the liabilities corner of the balance sheet. But what Yang 
and Eric under Badri Kothandaraman are doing is overstating income by treating deferred 
revenue as earned revenue by recognizing revenue before it is actually earned. 


 
 ENPH is allegedly altering contracts and “buying” revenue to help enable its improper deferred revenue accounting practices:  


One of the former employees our investigators spoke with claimed that, to help enable its improper deferred revenue accounting 
practices, the Company was “tweaking” the contracts of certain orders to enable it to capture revenue from these contracts 
before the services are actually provided.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 20


…the company continues to recognize the deferred revenues from the future orders due to 
tweaking of the contracts in a manner that income is captured in a staggered manner much 
before the service is actually delivered. 


 
Our investigators were also told by former employees that, as part of this contract “tweaking” scheme, ENPH was in certain 
instances “buying” revenue by offering some of its customers a sizable upfront discount to incentivize them to place future orders 
today.  This practice of “buying” revenue has allegedly helped the Company maintain a pipeline of contracts which it can then 
“tweak” in order to “continue to draw from the nectar of the deferred revenue.”  Former employees described these practices as 
a sort-of pyramid-type or ponzi-type scheme which borrows from the future to make the present look better, and claimed that 
“the entire accounting process would completely unravel” without it.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from 
summaries of these conversations. 
 


…(I think) that Enphase was buying turnover (revenue) using the services of shady CA (chartered 
accounting) firms…(The cost would be) clearly off set by the geometric gains that one makes in 
terms of valuation that this company has been achieving… The products are shipped at future 
dates as these resellers begin to get contracts from their installation partners. As long as you 
can show the advance orders you can continue to draw from the nectar of the deferred 
revenue. 
 
It is like a pyramid scheme which cannot stop, and if it does, the entire accounting process will 
completely unravel. Expansion is therefore the key and that is why they have expanded to India 
and more relaxed territories like NZ and Australia and not to China where they might not be able 
to game their books. 
 
It is kind of borrowing from the future to make the present look rosy…Now for a pyramid like 
scheme, which this accounting ingenious practice is all about, to continue the new money must 
continue to come in without interruption. That has stopped for a while now in India and their 
existing markets abroad, with the exception of the US. The company will need to find new 
markets quickly and this is the why they are moving so fast in the African markets. 


 
Is ENPH Forging Invoices To Further Inflate Its Financial Performance? 


Soon after establishing operations in India in August 2017, ENPH signed up Sun-AP Ecopower and Redington as its distribution partners in 
the country.  However, our investigators learned that both distributors had completely severed ties with ENPH by 2019.  According to an 
employee of one of these distributors, his/her company severed its ties with ENPH based on that company’s belief that ENPH was working 
directly with installers in India to fraudulently boost its revenue by forging and inflating invoices. 
 
Providing more details, the source stated that, after ENPH opened its Bangalore office, the Company began circumventing distributors by 
establishing direct contact with installers in India.  The source further stated that he/she believed ENPH was circumventing distributors in 
order to work directly with installers to inflate invoices.  The source also told our investigators that he/she did not believe that ENPH’s 
reported growth in India was legitimate due to unfavorable industry conditions and a lack of shaded areas in the country where the 
Company’s microinverters would be useful.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 21





We began to have second thoughts about our partnership the very moment Enphase moved 
to their Bangalore office and began establishing contact with the installers directly, leaving us 
out of the picture. One of the main reasons is because with us in between, the invoice inflation 
method is not possible…We couldn’t continue in such a partnership and severed ties with them. 
 
We have however kept tabs of their operations, especially after seeing their stellar balance 
sheet. I don’t understand how the operations or revenues have grown so much. Till 2018…the 
micro inverter business was doing only INR 7 Cr and the software business has not grown much 
in India since then. Plus, this inverter is only really useful in those parts of India that experience 
substantial shade during the day, a place like Bangalore or hill stations or forest areas…So where 
is the demand coming from? They are not directly selling it to customers either. Therefore, this 
seven-fold increase in only micro converter sales is highly doubtful…Why I say this with certainty 
is because their market share in India has remained low despite such stellar numbers and the 
industry meanwhile has not expanded so much.  
 
It is a clear case of colluding with the vendors, by inflating invoices and showing sales of more 
micro inverters than normal…What I’m hearing from my peers in the industry is that similar 
numbers were being reported in the North America business as well as in Europe and New 
Zealand. I am not an expert in these markets but I’m quite an experienced person in the India 
market and I can vouch that their micro inverters couldn’t have been sold at this frenetic pace 
because the domestic solar market in India, where the installation partners are most active, 
didn’t move at this pace due to the structural and pricing issues that I have explained earlier. 


 
As the old saying goes, “where there is one cockroach, there are likely many others,” and we believe this suspected practice of inflating 
invoices likely extends further beyond what this one distributor experienced.  Consider that both, and not just one, of ENPH’s main distribution 
partners in India abruptly severed ties with the Company at around the same time.  We have a hard time believing this is merely 
coincidence, and instead believe that both distributors pulled out of the relationship because both believed that the Company was forging 
invoices. 


 
Unusually High Attrition Rate In India: A Symptom Of ENPH’s Alleged Book Cooking And Toxic 
Work Culture? 


Given the alleged book cooking being conducted in, and apparently toxic work culture of the India office, we were not surprised to learn 
that ENPH’s India-based employees are leaving the Company in droves. 
 
To be more specific, our investigators were told by an industry participant with knowledge of ENPH’s India-based operations that the 
Company’s Bangalore office has an astronomical attrition rate of around 70% annually.  The source further elaborated that this high 
attrition rate was unusual given that the labor market was soft in India, and that the Company appeared to pay its employees well.  He 
also speculated that there must be something “rotten in the core” at the Company which was causing employees to leave in droves.  He
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 22


even went as far as comparing ENPH to Satyam, an India-based company which was exposed in 2009 for committing massive accounting 
fraud.  Provided below are the relevant extracts from this conversation. 
 


There is something very “Satyam like” about Enphase. I am not being able to put a finger on 
it…some things don’t seem to add up. Even in a soft labor market, they have had a close to 70% 
attrition. They pay rather well as all their employees seem to use their own vehicles but obviously, 
something is rotten in the core that is repulsing their employees?” 


ENPH’s Largest Shareholder Completely Cashes Out On May 20 th: We 
Believe He Learned Of The Existence Of Our Private Investigation 


On May 22nd, 2020, ENPH’s largest shareholder – Chilean entrepreneur Isidoro Quirogo (“Quirogo) – disclosed in a Form 4 filing that his firm 
had sold its entire 11% stake in the Company.  Although major shareholders exiting their investments is a common market occurrence, we 
found the timing of when, and speed with which Quirogo unloaded his entire holdings to be highly suspicious. 
 
To be more specific, as disclosed in his Form 4 filing, it appears that Quirogo unloaded his entire 13.5m shares of ENPH stock, which were 
worth more than $800m, in only one day on May 20th, 2020.  Typically, when a major shareholder unwinds such a large position, it is done 
over the course of several days or even weeks in order to maximize the value of their shares by selling them in a controlled manner.  We 
believe Quirogo’s decision to sell nearly $1 billion worth of ENPH shares in just one day indicates that he may have been desperate to get 
out. 
 
So, why was he seemingly so desperate to exit his position after more than two years of being a major ENPH shareholder? We find it curious 
that his share sales on May 20th occurred right around the time that our private investigators were wrapping up their investigation in India.  
This, combined with the similarly frantic pace with which ENPH executives and board members have recently been liquidating massive 
amounts of ENPH shares in June (which will be discussed in the next section), leads us to conclude that Quirogo had caught wind of our 
investigation and wanted to quickly get out before the contents of our investigation were made public. 


ENPH Executives And Board Members Have Also Been Desperately 
Liquidating Shares In June – Proof, In Our View, That The Existence Of 
Our Investigation Leaked And That Our Findings Are Accurate 


Based on the frantic, and frankly ridiculous pace with which they have been liquidating $millions worth of ENPH shares in June, we believe 
that ENPH management and board members, like Quiroga, almost certainly caught wind of our private investigation and are now in a 
panicked rush to cash-in before the ship sinks, which would amount to confirmation that the findings of our private investigation are 
accurate. 
 
As shown in the table below, in a series of Form 4 filings, CFO Eric Branderiz, CAO Mandy Yang, COO Jeff McNeil and CCO Dave Ranhoff, 
disclosed that they had collectively sold an astounding 254,097 ENPH shares – 100,249, 36,570, 7,500 and 109,778 shares, respectively – in 
open market dispositions in the span of just four days from June 1st to June 4th.  Furthermore, in a series of Form 4 filings, board members TJ 
Rodgers, Ben Kortlang and Joseph Malchow disclosed that they had sold an even more astounding 2,186,250 shares – 2,000,000, 180,000 
and 6,250, respectively – in open market dispositions in the span of just eight days from June 8th to June 15th.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 23





   
 
The large number of shares that ENPH executives and board members have recently sold is shocking and unprecedented for this 
Company: 
 


 The 254,097 shares recently sold by ENPH executives in open market dispositions over the span of just four days in June 
significantly exceeded the 187,508 shares that they had sold in the almost 2.5 years prior from January 1st, 2017 to May 31st, 2020!  
Furthermore, the $13.7m that ENPH executives pocketed from their June sales was 3.5x the $3.9m they had pocketed from their 
share sales over the prior 2.5 years.  


 Ben Kortlang’s sale of 180,000 or $9.0m of ENPH shares in open market dispositions occurred in the span of just one day, and 
represented a whopping 65% of his total holdings in the Company 


 TJ Rodgers’ sale of 2.0m or $98.1m of ENPH shares in open market dispositions occurred over the span of just four days, and 
represented almost 58.7% of his total holdings in the Company 
 


ENPH Executives and Board Members Collectively Sold $120.9m of ENPH Shares In The Span Of Just 15 Days In June


Date of # of Average Proceeds From
Share Sales Shares Sold Sale Price Share Sales


ENPH Board Members:


TJ Rodgers 6/8/2020 1,477 $52.500 $0.1m
6/10/2020 1,668,721 $49.168 $82.0m
6/11/2020 329,802 $48.453 $16.0m


Total 2,000,000 $98.1m


Ben Kortlang 6/15/2020 180,000 $50.231 $9.0m


Joseph Malchow 6/15/2020 6,250 $50.510 $0.3m


ENPH Executives:


Eric Branderiz 6/3/2020 63,892 $53.549 $3.4m
6/3/2020 22,066 $55.341 $1.2m
6/3/2020 14,291 $55.985 $0.8m


Total 100,249 $5.4m


Mandy Yang 6/3/2020 36,570 $55.064 $2.0m


Jeff McNeil 6/1/2020 5,990 $58.383 $0.3m
6/1/2020 1,510 $58.804 $0.1m


Total 7,500 $0.4m


Dave Ranhoff 6/4/2020 109,778 $53.066 $5.8m


Total 2,434,097 $120.9m


Total, Executive Sales 254,097 $13.7m


Total, Board Member Sales 2,186,250 $107.5m


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 24


Given – 1) the unusually frantic pace with which ENPH executives and board members have been selling their shares in June, 2) the fact 
that Quirogo, ENPH’s largest shareholder, had sold his entire ~11% stake at an even faster pace just days earlier, and 3) that the recent large 
share sales by ENPH executives and board members occurred just a few days following the completion of our private investigation, which 
concluded in late May – we believe that ENPH executives and board members, like Quirogo, must have caught wind of our private 
investigation and have been desperately trying to unload their shares before our findings were made public. 


Our Additional Diligence Further Confirms, In Our View, That ENPH’s 
Reported Financials Are Fabricated And Grossly Inflated 


Our diligence of ENPH went far beyond our private investigation and included a thorough examination of ENPH’s reported financial 
statements and disclosures, conversations with several solar industry experts, conversations with the largest distributors of ENPH products 
and an examination of solar industry datasets and other online information sources. 
 
From this additional research, we uncovered numerous additional smoking guns and other severe red flags which, in our view, prove that 
ENPH’s reported financial performance is fabricated and grossly inflated.  Provided below is a summary of our findings and analysis which 
form the basis for our conclusion, which is more thoroughly supported in the sections to follow. 
 


 Additional smoking guns emerge which, in our view, confirm that ENPH’s reported financials are fiction: Our further diligence has 
uncovered multiple, additional smoking guns which, in our view, amount to proof that ENPH’s reported revenue and gross margin 
are fabricated and grossly inflated.  These smoking guns include 1) the seemingly impossible reduction in ENPH’s unit costs or cost 
of revenue per watt of 23.6%, or 37.6% on a tariff-adjusted basis, from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019, 2) the data we received from large 
distributors of ENPH products in the US, accounting for an estimated 69.5% of the market, who reported growth in ENPH product 
sales and market share changes which were far below and did not align with the Company’s reported revenue growth, 3) the 
large disconnect between Wood Mackenzie market share data, which shows that ENPH actually lost meaningful share from FY 
2017 to FY 2019, and ENPH’s parabolic revenue growth during that same timeframe, and 4) definitive evidence, in our view, that 
ENPH used improper deferred revenue accounting to significantly inflate its financial performance in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018. 


 Numerous red flags further confirm that ENPH’s financial reporting cannot be trusted: Our further diligence identified numerous 
additional red flags which we believe further support our conclusion that ENPH’s reported financials are fiction.  These additional 
red flags include 1) alarming deferred revenue accounting irregularities in ENPH’s Q4 2019 and Q1 2020 financial reports, 2) ENPH’s 
apparent acquisition of a related party which was troublingly not disclosed to investors and was improperly excluded from its 
financial statements, 3) the suspiciously large amount of safe harbor revenue ENPH reported relative to SEDG, 4) negative 
Glassdoor employee reviews which echo many of the same issues and concerns discussed in this report, 5) the significant 
increase in the Company’s accounts receivable days during the tenure of Kothandaraman, and 6) ENPH management’s apparent 
attempts to pump up its share price with frequent, fluff PRs and brash public statements.  


 PP estimates that at least $205.3m of ENPH’s US revenue in FY 2019 was fabricated, and that a significant portion of its international 
revenue was fabricated as well:  Based on market share data provided by Wood Mackenzie, we estimate that at least $205.3m of 
ENPH’s reported US revenue in FY 2019 was fabricated.  We also estimate that, after excluding potentially fabricated revenue and 
one-time safe harbor sales, the Company’s ‘actual and sustainable’ US revenue in FY 2019 amounted to just $273.8m, which is 
almost 50% lower than what it reported.  Furthermore, based on 1) the claims of former employees that ENPH’s reported Indian 
revenue is fabricated, and 2) the statements by an employee of an India-based distributor that he/she believed the Company 
was working with installers to forge invoices, we believe that ENPH’s reported international revenue, in India as well as in other 
countries, is also significantly inflated. 


 PP believes that most, if not all, of the 2,080 Bps expansion in ENPH’s gross margin during Kothandaraman’s tenure is also fiction: 
Finally, based on 1) our analysis which, in our view, proves that almost all of the 804 Bps increase in ENPH’s reported gross margin
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 25


from 18.4% in Q2 2017 to 26.5% in Q1 2018 was attributable to deferred revenue accounting shenanigans, and 2) the nearly impossible 
decrease in the Company’s unit costs of 37.6% on a tariff-adjusted basis from Q3 2018 and Q3 2019, we believe that most, if not all, 
of the 2,080 Bps expansion in ENPH’s gross margin during Kothandaraman’s tenure as CEO was also fabricated. 


Multiple, Additional Smoking Guns Emerge 


From our additional research, we uncovered multiple smoking guns which support the findings of our private investigation and, in our view, 
amount to further proof that ENPH’s reported financials are fiction.  These smoking guns, which are listed and detailed below, indicate that 
ENPH’s reported revenue, as well as its reported gross margin and profits, are fabricated and grossly inflated. 
 
#1: Nearly impossible reduction in reported cost of revenue per watt 
 
From Q3 2018 to Q3 2019, ENPH’s reported cost of revenue per watt decreased by a logic-defying 23.6%, or an even more logic-defying 37.6% 
on a tariff-adjusted basis, meaning that the Company was able to reduce its manufacturing or unit costs by almost 40% during that 
timeframe.  We believe it would have been nearly impossible for ENPH to achieve this dramatic reduction in unit costs given that, 
 


1. This reduction in manufacturing / unit costs was achieved in an unrealistically short timeframe of just 12 months,  
2. ENPH did not release a game-changing new product during that period, and 
3. The Company outsources all of its manufacturing to third-parties in China (e.g. Flextronics) and thus do not have much control 


over its manufacturing costs. 


The above leads us to conclude that ENPH’s reported cost of revenue per watt and, in turn, its cost of revenue is fabricated, and that the 
Company’s reported gross margin is just as, if not more, inflated than its reported revenue.  A more detailed summary of our findings and 
analysis is provided in the bullets below. 
 


 The US government, via its Section 301 tariffs, recently levied a 25% tariff on imported solar components from China: On September 
24, 2018, the first phase of the US government’s Section 301 tariffs took effect, resulting in a 10% tariff on solar components imported 
from China.  Then, on June 15, 2019, the second phase of the 301 tariffs kicked in, raising the tariff on solar components from China 
to 25%. 
 


 Due in large part to the 25% tariff, SEDG reported an almost 25% increase in unit costs from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019:  As would be 
expected, SEDG, which manufactures a significant portion of its components in China, reported a large increase in cost of revenue 
per watt following the enactment of these tariffs.  As shown in the figure below, SEDG’s cost of revenue per watt increased 
significantly in the first full quarter after both the first and second phase of the tariffs kicked-in – 14.2% in Q4 2018 and 9.7% in Q3 
2019.  In total, SEDG’s cost of revenue per watt increased by 23.5% from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019, nearly matching the full amount of the 
25% tariff.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 26





 Despite the 25% tariff, ENPH, which manufactures all of its components in China, reported a massive 23.6% decrease in unit costs 
from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019: By contrast and quite puzzlingly, ENPH, which at the time outsourced all of its manufacturing to China, 
actually reported a large decrease in cost of revenue per watt from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019.  As shown in the figure below, ENPH’s cost 
of revenue per watt decreased significantly in the first full quarter after both the first and second phase of the tariffs kicked-in – 
3.5% in Q4 2018 and 7.4% in Q3 2019.  In total, despite having to contend with the introduction of a 25% tariff, ENPH was somehow 
able to decrease its reported cost of revenue per watt by a massive 23.6%(!) from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019. 
 


SEDG's Cost Of Revenue Per Watt Increased By 23.5% After The Enactment Of 25% Tariffs


($ in millions, except on a per watt basis) Q3'18 Q4'18 Q1'19 Q2'19 Q3'19


Cost of Revenue $158.6 $184.0 $185.8 $214.3 $271.2
Megawatts Shipped (AC) 1,083 1,100 1,100 1,300 1,500


Reported Cost of Revenue / Watt ($ in Cents) $14.6 $16.7 $16.9 $16.5 $18.1
QoQ Increase / (Decrease) - % 14.2% 1.0% (2.4%) 9.7%
Cumulative Increase / (Decrease) - % 14.2% 15.3% 12.6% 23.5%


Source: SEDG filings with the SEC and earnings reports.


$14.6 


$16.7 $16.9 
$16.5 


$18.1 


$12.0


$13.0


$14.0


$15.0


$16.0


$17.0


$18.0


$19.0


Q3'18 Q4'18 Q1'19 Q2'19 Q3'19


Co
st


 o
f R


ev
en


ue
 P


er
 W


a
tt


 (
$ 


in
 C


en
ts


)
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 27





 On a tariff-adjusted basis, ENPH’s unit costs decreased by an even more logic-defying 37.6% from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019: As puzzling 
as the trend in ENPH’s reported unit costs shown in the above figure is, it does not fully reflect just how mind-boggling the decline 
in the Company’s cost of revenue per watt was.  In order to capture the true decline in ENPH’s costs, cost of revenue per watt must 
be compared on an apples-to-apples basis by normalizing for the impact of the tariffs.  In order to do so, we adjusted all quarters 
prior to Q3 2019 to include the full 25% tariff. 
 
To be more specific, given that the 10% phase one tariff was instituted near the end of Q3 2018, we increased cost of revenue per 
watt in Q3 2018 by the full 25% for comparative purposes.  Additionally, given that the full 25% phase two tariff was instituted near 
the end of Q2 2019, we also increased, for comparative purposes, cost of revenue per watt in Q4 2018, Q1 2019 and Q2 2019, which 
already included a 10% tariff, by an additional 15%.  Finally, Q3 2019 already included the full 25% tariff and therefore was not adjusted. 
 
After adjusting all quarters to include the full 25% tariff, the true decline in cost of revenue per watt was much greater than what 
the Company reported.  As shown in the figure below, we calculate that ENPH’s tariff-adjusted cost of revenue per watt declined 
by a logic-defying 37.6%(!!) from Q3 2018 to Q3 2019. 
 


ENPH's Cost Of Revenue Per Watt Somehow Declined By 23.6% After The Enactment Of 25% Tariffs


($ in millions, except on a per watt basis) Q3'18 Q4'18 Q1'19 Q2'19 Q3'19


Cost of Revenue $52.7 $64.1 $66.8 $88.8 $115.4
Megawatts Shipped (DC) 204 257 306 416 584


Reported Cost of Revenue / Watt ($ in Cents) $25.9 $25.0 $21.8 $21.3 $19.8
QoQ Increase / (Decrease) - % (3.5%) (12.5%) (2.3%) (7.4%)
Cumulative Increase / (Decrease) - % (3.5%) (15.5%) (17.5%) (23.6%)


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.


$25.9 
$25.0 


$21.8 
$21.3 


$19.8 


$16.0


$18.0


$20.0


$22.0


$24.0


$26.0


$28.0


Q3'18 Q4'18 Q1'19 Q2'19 Q3'19


Co
st


 o
f R


ev
en


u
e 


Pe
r 


W
at


t 
($


 in
 C


en
ts


)
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 28





 The logic-defying decrease in ENPH’s reported unit costs is fiction, in our view: Based on common sense alone, a nearly 40% 
reduction in manufacturing / unit costs would be impossible for almost any company to achieve in just 12 months.  It is even more 
remote that ENPH could have achieved this miraculous feat when taking into account that the Company did not release a game-
changing new product during that time period – the IQ7 accounted for the bulk of its sales in both Q3’18 (78% of microinverter 
sales) and Q3’19 (99% of microinverter sales).  Furthermore, ENPH outsources all of its manufacturing to third parties (e.g. 
Flextronics) which gives it little control over its manufacturing costs and, in turn, greatly limits its ability to institute impactful cost 
savings measures over the short-term.  Finally, ENPH did not begin to move some of its contract manufacturing to Mexico until Q2 
2019, and only manufactured around 9% of its microinverters in Mexico in Q3 2019, while the remaining 91% was manufactured in 
China and thus was still subject to the 25% tariff. 
 


#2: Reported revenue growth far exceeds the growth in ENPH sales reported to us by large solar distributors, who collectively account for 
an estimated 69.5% of the distributor market 
 
In FY 2019, almost all of ENPH’s growth was driven by sales to its US customers which, after adjusting to exclude the one-time impact of safe 
harbor sales and the ramp-up of the SunPower contract, grew by a whopping 97.0% from $207.2m in FY 2018 to $408.3m in FY 2019.  However, 
based on the findings of our research, we do not believe it is possible that ENPH’s US revenue could have grown even close to this amount. 
 


ENPH's Tariff-Adj. Cost Of Revenue Per Watt Has Declined By A Logic-Defying 37.6%


($ in millions, except on a per watt basis) Q3'18 Q4'18 Q1'19 Q2'19 Q3'19


Cost of Revenue $52.7 $64.1 $66.8 $88.8 $115.4
Megawatts Shipped (DC) 204 257 306 416 584
Reported Cost of Revenue / Watt ($ in Cents) $25.9 $25.0 $21.8 $21.3 $19.8


(+) Tariff Adjustment ($ in Cents) (1) $5.8 $3.4 $2.9 $2.9 $0.0


Tariff-Adj. Cost of Revenue / Watt ($ in Cents) $31.7 $28.3 $24.8 $24.2 $19.8
QoQ Increase / (Decrease) - % (10.6%) (12.5%) (2.3%) (18.5%)
Cumulative Increase / (Decrease) - % (10.6%) (21.7%) (23.5%) (37.6%)


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.  PP estimates.


$31.7 


$28.3 


$24.8 


$24.2 


$19.8 


$16.0


$18.0


$20.0


$22.0


$24.0


$26.0


$28.0


$30.0


$32.0


$34.0


Q3'18 Q4'18 Q1'19 Q2'19 Q3'19


Co
st


 o
f R


ev
en


ue
 P


er
 W


at
t 


($
 in


 C
en


ts
)
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 29


Over the past several months, we have spoken and exchanged emails with employees from the largest MLPE distributors in the US – 
including CED Greentech, Sonepar, WESCO, Soligent, BayWa and CivicSolar – who collectively account for an estimated 69.5% of the 
distributor market.  As summarized in the table below, all of the distributors we contacted reported growth in ENPH product sales and 
market share changes which were far below and did not reconcile with the growth ENPH reported.  Particularly telling is that fact that CED 
Greentech and Sonepar, the two largest MLPE distributors in the US with an estimated combined market share of 42.5%, reported that their 
FY 2019 sales of ENPH products grew just 30% and 15% YoY, respectively.  
 





 
 
Given that 1) the vast majority of ENPH’s US revenue is generated from distributors, and 2) the distributors we contacted collectively account 
for an estimated 69.5% of the MLPE distributor market in the US, we believe our findings amount to proof that ENPH’s reported US revenue 
and, in turn, its consolidated revenue is fabricated and grossly inflated. 
 
A more detailed summary of our findings is provided in the bullet points below. 


 
 In FY 2019, ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue growth, which excludes safe harbor and SunPower sales, was 6.3x higher than the 


overall market: ENPH’s growth in FY 2019 was driven almost entirely by its sales to the US market which grew 138.4% YoY from $219.6m 
to $523.6m.  A good portion of this growth was driven by safe harbor sales and the ramp-up of the SunPower contract.  However, 
as shown in the figure below, even after adjusting for these one-time events, ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue growth was 
still an eye-popping 97.0%, 6.3x the 15.4% growth of the overall US residential solar sector in FY 2019 as reported by Wood Mackenzie. 
 


Data Provided By US MLPE Distributors Does Not Reconcile With ENPH's Reported US Growth


Estimated YoY Growth In ENPH Product Sales / Distributor Data vs.


Market Share 
(1)


Market Share Changes ENPH's Reported Growth


CED Greentech 25.0% • ENPH FY'19 sales grew 30% YoY from ~$67m to ~$87m
• SEDG FY'19 sales also grew 30% YoY, implying no change in share


DOES NOT RECONCILE


Sonepar 17.5% • ENPH FY'19 sales grew 15% YoY from $48m to $55m
• SEDG FY'19 sales grew 19% YoY, indicating that SEDG took incremental share 
from ENPH


DOES NOT RECONCILE


Soligent 10.0% • ENPH FY'19 sales grew 63% YoY which was still far below ENPH's reported 
growth.  ENPH FY'19 sales grew just 15% vs FY'17
• SEDG FY'19 sales grew 42% YoY, implying an increase in ENPH share, but not 
close to the share gains implied by ENPH's reported growth in FY'19
• ENPH growth in FY'19 artifically inflated by abnormally low FY'18 sales caused 
by internal supply decisions at WESCO


DOES NOT RECONCILE


WESCO 10.0% • Little to no growth in ENPH product sales as of YTD Q3'19
• Share losses for ENPH were potentially around 300 bps in YTD Q3'19


DOES NOT RECONCILE


BayWa 5.0% • ENPH FY'19 sales grew 55% YoY which was still far below ENPH's reported 
growth


DOES NOT RECONCILE


CivicSolar 2.0% • Share of ENPH product sales grew by ~500 bps in FY'19
• Although this share gain is meaningful, it is nowhere near the share gain 
implied by the growth in ENPH's reported US revenue


DOES NOT RECONCILE


Total 69.5%


Source: Sales managers of US MLPE distributors, PP estimates.
(1) PP estimates based on information provided by solar industry participants.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 30





 ENPH’s revenue growth in the US is mostly dependent on and driven by sales to distributors: Based on our recent conversation 
with ENPH’s IR representative, as well as management comments during its Q1 2020 earnings call, ENPH’s sales to distributors 
accounted for around 80% of its total revenue in FY 2019, meaning that the nearly doubling of the Company’s adjusted reported 
US revenue in FY 2019 should have been primarily driven by sales to distributors. 
 


 Employees of large US distributors were unable to explain and expressed doubts to us about ENPH’s parabolic revenue growth: 
We spoke with sales managers, business directors and executives of many of the largest distributors of ENPH products in the US, 
including the four largest distributors in the MLPE space – CED Greentech, Sonepar, Soligent and WESCO.  All were unable to provide 
an explanation for, and many were dumbfounded by how ENPH was able to almost double its adjusted reported US revenue in 
FY 2019 when the overall market grew by just 15.4%. 
 
For example, during a conversation in late 2019, a sales manager from WESCO stated that he would trust Wood MacKenzie’s 
reported market share data (which we will discuss in the next section) over ENPH’s reported financials.  He also told us that SEDG 
had taken incremental share through the first three quarters of FY 2019 and that, based on his observations, Enphase had certainly 
not doubled its US sales.  Provided below are some of the relevant extracts from a summary of this conversation. 
 


I would trust the third party (Wood Mackenzie) information over Enphase’s…Market share, 
certainly the trend is certainly still in SolarEdge’s corner on that one…they’ve taken more share 
for sure.  Just based on the traction that I’ve seen, particularly with solar installers, certainly they 
(Enphase) haven’t growth that fast…over the last year I have definitely not seen that Enphase 
has doubled. 


 
As another example, a sales manager that we spoke with from Sonepar was incredulous and simply could not believe that ENPH 
could have doubled its US revenue YoY.  The source speculated that this growth must have come from outside the US because, 
based on what the source observed, it could not have come from within the US. 
 


 Sales of ENPH products by CED Greentech and Sonepar, the two largest MLPE distributors in the US, grew just 30% and 15%, 
respectively, in FY 2019: CED Greentech is the largest solar distributor in the US which, based on our conversations with solar 
industry participants, has an estimated 25% share of the US MLPE distributor space.  In an email exchange in May 2020, we were 
told by a CED Greentech sales manager wrote to us that sales of ENPH products to CED Greentech’s customers grew $20m or 30% 
YoY in FY 2019.  This was far lower than the almost 100% growth ENPH reported.  He also told us that CED Greentech’s sales of SEDG 
products grew by 30% as well, meaning that there was little to no share change in FY 2019.  Provided below are the relevant extracts 
from this email exchange. 
 


PP: How much did your US residential sales of Enphase products increase from 2018 to 2019? 


ENPH: Reported FY 2019 Revenue ENPH: Adjusted Reported FY 2019 US Revenue Growth
($ in millions) FY'18 FY'19 ($ in millions) FY'18 FY'19


US Revenue 219.6 523.6 Reported US Revenue $219.6 $523.6
International Revenue 96.6 100.8 Less: SunPower Revenue (12.4) (70.9)
Total Reported Revenue 316.2 624.3 Less: Safe Harbor Revenue 0.0 (44.4)


Adjusted Reported US Revenue $207.2 $408.3
YoY Increase / (Decrease) 97.0%


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 31


 
Sales Manager from CED Greentech: (YoY Enphase sales increased by) $20m, (ENPH and SEDG 
both grew by) 30% across the board 


 
Sonepar is the second largest solar distributor in the US which, based on our conversations with solar industry participants, have 
an estimated 17.5% share of the US MLPE distributor space.  In an email exchange in May 2020, a Sonepar sales manager wrote to 
us that sales of ENPH products to Sonepar’s customers grew by 15% YoY from $48m in FY 2018 to $55m in FY 2019.  Once again, this 
was far lower than the almost 100% growth in ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue.  He also told us that SEDG sales grew by 19%, 
indicating that SEDG gained incremental share from ENPH in FY 2019.  Provided below are the relevant extracts from this email 
exchange. 
 


PP: How much did your US residential sales of Enphase products increase from 2018 to 2019? 
 
Sales Manager from Sonepar: There was an increase of 15%. $48M to $55M 


 
 Based on the 30% and 15% growth reported by CED Greentech and Sonepar, ENPH’s sales to its ‘other’ US customers should have 


grown by an estimated 155%(!!) in FY 2019:  As just mentioned, Sonepar’s sales of ENPH products to its customers increased by 15% 
from $48m in FY 2018 to $55m in FY 2019.  Based on the 30% or $20m YoY growth reported to us by CED Greentech, we calculate 
that CED Greentech’s sales of ENPH products to its customers increased from $66.7m in FY 2018 to $86.7m in FY 2019. 
 


 
 
Assuming that CED Greentech sold ENPH products at a 20% margin, we calculate that ENPH’s sales to CED Greentech amounted 
to $53.3m in FY 2018 and $69.3m in FY 2019.  Similarly, assuming that Sonepar also sold ENPH products at a 20% margin, we calculate 
that ENPH’s sales to Sonepar amounted to $38.4m in FY 2018 and $44.0m in FY 2019. 
 


 
 
Using the above figures, we calculate that ENPH’s revenue from its ‘other’ US customers, excluding safe harbor, SunPower, CED 
Greentech and Sonepar sales, should have grown by an astronomical 155.4% in FY 2019! 
 


Implied FY 2018 & FY 2019 CED Greentech Sales of ENPH Products


($ in millions) FY'18 ($ in millions) FY'18 FY'19


$ Growth in ENPH Product Sales in FY'19 $20.0 Implied CED Greentech Sales of ENPH Products $66.7 $86.7
(÷) % Growth in ENPH Product Sales in FY'19 30.0% % Growth 30.0%
Implied CED Greentech Sales of ENPH Products $66.7


Source: Sales manager from CED Greentech


Estimated Sales of ENPH Products to CED Greentech Estimated Sales of ENPH Products to Sonepar
($ in millions) FY'18 FY'19 ($ in millions) FY'18 FY'19


CED Greentech Sales of ENPH Products $66.7 $86.7 Sonepar Sales of ENPH Products $48.0 $55.0


(x) (1 - Estimated Gross Margin) (1) 80.0% 80.0% (x) (1 - Estimated Gross Margin) (1) 80.0% 80.0%


Estimated Sales of ENPH Products to CED Greentech $53.3 $69.3 Estimated Sales of ENPH Products to Sonepar $38.4 $44.0


Source: Sales manager from CED Greentech Source: Sales manager from Sonepar
(1) Prescience Point estimate. (1) Prescience Point estimate.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 32





 The growth in ENPH’s revenue from ‘other’ US customers appears to have been far less than 155%, based on our discussions with 
several other large distributors: In addition to CED Greentech and Sonepar, we also spoke and exchanged emails with employees 
from Soligent, WESCO, BayWa and CivicSolar.  As detailed below, based on the growth in ENPH product sales and market share 
changes reported to us by these additional distributors – who collectively account for an estimated 27% of the MLPE distributor 
market in the US – the growth in ENPH’s revenue from ‘other’ US customers appears to have been far less than 155%. 
 
Soligent is among the top four MLPE distributors in the US with an estimated 10% market share.  In an email exchange in May, a 
Soligent sales manager wrote to us that sales of ENPH products to its customers grew by 63% from FY 2018 to FY 2019, which was 
still far lower than our calculation that ENPH’s sales to ‘other’ US customers should have grown by 155% in FY 2019.  Furthermore, 
Soligent’s sales of SEDG products also grew significantly in FY 2019 – 42% according to the sales manager – which means that 
ENPH’s growth was not due to enormous share gains.  Lastly, we were told that FY 2019 growth was artificially boosted by internal 
supply decisions which depressed FY 2018 sales, and that ENPH sales had grown by a much lower 23% from FY 2017 to FY 2019.  
Provided below are the relevant extracts from this email exchange. 
 


PP: How much did your US residential sales of Enphase products increase from 2018 to 2019? 
 
Sales Manager from Soligent: 2018 was a down year due to internal supply decisions not market 
conditions. We reversed our strategy in 2019 to what our approach was in 2017.  2019 ENPH sales 
were up 63% vs 18 and up 23% from 2017… 2019 SEDG sales were up 42% vs 18 and up 15% from 2017 


 
Like Soligent, WESCO is among the top four MLPE distributors in the US with an estimated 10% market share.  In late 2019, we spoke 
with a WESCO sales manager about the growth in ENPH product sales at his company.  Although he did not provide us with exact 
sales figures, he did tell us that, based on sales trends reported by reps, WESCO’s sales of ENPH products did not grow much if at 
all in the first three quarters of FY 2019.  He also estimated that the share of ENPH product sales may have declined by up to 300 
bps YTD. 
 
BayWa is a leading MLPE distributor in the US with an estimated 5% market share.  In an email exchange in June, a BayWa business 
director wrote to us that sales of ENPH products to its customers grew by ~55% from FY 2018 to FY 2019 which was still far lower 
than our calculation that ENPH’s sales to ‘other’ US customers should have grown by 155% in FY 2019.  
 


PP: How much did your US residential sales of Enphase products increase from 2018 to 2019? 
 


ENPH: Implied Growth In Revenue From 'Other' US Customers
($ in millions) FY'18 FY'19


Reported US Revenue $219.6 $523.6
Less: SunPower Revenue (12.4) (70.9)
Less: Safe Harbor Revenue 0.0 (44.4)
Less: CED Greentech Revenue (53.3) (69.3)
Less: Sonepar Revenue (38.4) (44.0)


Implied Revenue From 'Other' US Customers $115.5 $294.9
YoY Increase / (Decrease) 155.4%


Source: PP estimates.  ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 33


Sales Manager from Soligent: Residential sales grew by ~55% year over year between 2018 and 
2019. 


  
Finally, CivicSolar is an MLPE distributor in the US with an estimated 2% market share.  In late 2020, we spoke with an executive from 
CivicSolar about the growth in ENPH product sales at his company.  Although the CivicSolar executive did not provide us with 
exact sales figures, he did tell us that the share of ENPH product sales by CivicSolar had increased by around 500 Bps in FY 2019, 
which is nowhere close to the amount of share gain implied by a 155% growth rate. 
 


#3: Reported revenue growth does not reconcile with Wood Mackenzie MLPE market share data 
 
ENPH’s reported revenue growth also does not reconcile with and is far below what is implied by MLPE market share data provided by Wood 
Mackenzie, one of the most reputable and comprehensive providers of solar industry data.  ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue, which 
excludes one-time safe harbor revenue and sales to SunPower, grew by a cumulative total of 104.6% from FY 2017 to FY 2019, almost 4x the 
26.1% the US residential solar sector grew during that same timeframe. 
 


 
 
However, despite having grown much faster than the overall market, ENPH’s market share of US residential solar installations, as reported 
by Wood Mackenzie, actually declined by a cumulative total of 518 Bps or 20.4% from 25.4% in FY 2017 to 20.3% in FY 2019.  By comparison, 
during that same timeframe, SEDG’s market share increased by a robust 1,879 Bps or 46.6% from 40.3% in FY 2017 to 59.1% in FY 2019.  We 
believe this puzzling and large disparity between ENPH’s reported growth and the Wood Mackenzie market share data amounts to further 
proof that the Company’s reported revenue is fabricated and grossly inflated.  Provided below is a more detailed discussion of our findings. 


 
 Wood Mackenzie is a highly reputable and comprehensive provider of solar industry data: Wood Mackenzie is one of, if not the 


most, reputable providers of third-party data for the solar industry, whose data is frequently cited by trade groups and 
government bodies such as the Solar Energy Industries Association, Department of Energy and National Renewable Laboratory.  
According to its sales representatives, the company’s MLPE market share data for the US residential solar sector is quite 
comprehensive and is based on a large sample of ~50% to 60% of the total market. 
 


 Based on Wood Mackenzie data, in FY 2019, ENPH’s US residential market share actually decreased significantly from FY 2017 to FY 
2019, while SEDG’s market share grew significantly during that same timeframe: As shown in the figure below, based on data 
provided by Wood Mackenzie, ENPH’s market share in the US residential sector, excluding its sales to SunPower, actually decreased 
by 518 Bps or 20.4% from 25.4% in FY 2017 to 20.3% in FY 2019.  By comparison, during that same timeframe, SEDG’s market share in 
the US residential sector increased by a robust 1,879 Bps or 46.6% from 40.3% to 59.1%. 
 


Adjusted Reported US Revenue


($ in millions) FY'17 FY'18 FY'19


Reported US Revenue $199.6 $219.6 $523.6
Less: SunPower Revenue 0.0 (12.4) (70.9)
Less: Safe Harbor Revenue 0.0 0.0 (44.4)
Adjusted Reported US Revenue $199.6 $207.2 $408.3


YoY Growth 3.8% 97.0%
Cumulative Growth 104.6%


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 34





 The Wood Mackenzie data amounts to further proof, in our view, that ENPH’s reported US revenue and, in turn, its consolidated 
revenue in FY 2019 was fabricated and grossly inflated: As we discussed previously, the growth and market share changes 
reported to us by sales managers of large distributors was far below and did not align with ENPH’s reported US revenue in FY 2019.  
We believe the Wood Mackenzie data corroborates these findings. 
 
From FY 2017 to FY 2019, ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue, which excludes one-time safe harbor revenue and sales to SunPower, 
increased by a cumulative total of 104.6%.  If ENPH had grown anywhere close to the amount it reported, then this should have 
translated into a huge increase in its market share of installations.  Yet, this did not happen, and in fact, the opposite happened 
as ENPH’s share of installations actually declined significantly from FY 2017 to FY 2019, while SEDG’s share of installations increased 
by a significant amount.  We believe this puzzling and large disparity between ENPH’s reported growth and the Wood Mackenzie 
data amount to further proof that ENPH’s reported US revenue and, in turn, its consolidated revenue is fabricated and grossly 
inflated. 
 
It should also be noted that, when we asked representatives from Wood Mackenzie to provide a reason for the large discrepancy 
between their company’s data and ENPH’s reported US revenue growth, they could not provide one.  Instead, they pointed us to 
a recent Financial Times article, which we will discuss in more detail later in this report, that called into question ENPH’s reported 
revenue growth. 
 


#4: Clear evidence of improper deferred revenue accounting in ENPH’s financial statements 
 
In our initial reports on ENPH published in 2018, we provided proof, in our view, that the Company used improper deferred revenue 
accounting practices to inflate its performance in both Q1 2018 and Q2 2018 – the first two quarters following its adoption of ASC 606 on 
January 1, 2018. 
 
In our initiation report, we concluded that almost all of the 43.7% or 804 bps increase in ENPH’s reported gross margin from 18.4% in Q2 2017 
to 26.5% in Q1 2018 was attributable to deferred accounting shenanigans.  After adjusting ENPH’s results to exclude the impact of its deferred 
revenue accounting shenanigans, we calculated that its adjusted Q1 2018 gross margin was just 18.8%.  In our follow-up report, we provided 
the basis for our conclusion that the Company’s Q2 2018 gross margin was inflated by a similar amount.  A summary of our analysis of 
ENPH’s apparently improper deferred revenue accounting practices in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018, as presented in our initial reports on the 
Company, is provided below. 
 


 ENPH reported that deferred revenue amounted to $10.6m or 15.2% of its total revenue in Q1 2018: Because ENPH was now deferring 
both its Envoy software and hardware revenue, the company reported a sizable increase in the amount of deferred revenue it 
recognized in Q1 2018.  As disclosed on pg. 10 of its Q1 2018 10-Q, the Company recognized $10.6m of deferred revenue during the 
quarter. 
 


 We calculate that deferred revenue actually amounted to $16.9m or 24.2% of ENPH’s total revenue in Q1 2018:   In its Q1 2018 10-Q, 
ENPH reported that Envoy billings amounted to $9.4m in the quarter, and that its ending deferred revenue balance was $115.7m.  


According To Wood MacKenzie, ENPH's Market Share …While SEDG's Market Share Increased
Decreased 518 Bps From FY 2017 to FY 2019… A Robust 1,879 Bps From FY 2017 to FY 2019


FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 FY'17 FY'18 FY'19


ENPH - Market Share (1) 25.4% 18.5% 20.3% SEDG - Market Share 40.3% 51.8% 59.1%


Growth / (Decline) From FY'17 to FY'19 - Bps (518) Bps YoY Growth - Bps 1,879 Bps
Growth - % (20.4%) YoY Growth - % 46.6%


Source: Wood MacKenzie US MLPE market share data.
(1) Excludes direct sales to Sunpower.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 35


Additionally, the Company also disclosed in its Q1 2018 10-Q that the adoption of ASC 606 added $77.5m of deferred revenue 
liabilities to its balance sheet on 1/1/2018.  Adding $77.5m to the $45.6m of deferred revenue on its balance sheet on 12/31/2018, we 
calculate that the Company’s beginning deferred revenue balance in Q1 2018 was $123.1m. 
 


 
 
Using the above figures, we calculate that ENPH actually recognized $16.9m of deferred revenue in Q1 2018, $6.3m higher than 
reported. 
 





 Discrepancy in beginning deferred revenue balance indicates that ENPH improperly recognized $6.3m of deferred revenue in Q1 
2018: On pg. 10 of its Q1 2018 10-Q, ENPH reported that its beginning deferred revenue balance in Q1 2018 was $116.8m, or $6.3m less 
than the $123.1m we calculated.  As shown in the table below, this discrepancy was the source of the $6.3m difference between 
the $10.6m of deferred revenue recognition ENPH reported versus the $16.9m we calculated: 
 


 
 
The accounting for the addition that ENPH made to its deferred revenue balance should not be subject to much discretion.  It 
should simply be an A + B = C calculation.  Therefore, we do not believe that $6.3m of deferred revenue could have simply vanished 
into thin air. 
 
Instead, we believe that ENPH’s beginning deferred revenue balance in Q1 2018 was actually $123.1m, and thus the company 
recognized $6.3m more deferred revenue than what it reported.  Given the company’s apparent attempts to hide the recognition 
of this revenue from investors, we believe it was improperly and prematurely recognized in violation of GAAP. 
 


PP Calculation of Beginning Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Balance
($ in millions)


Deferred Revenue Balance as of 12/31/2018 $45.6
(+) Additional Deferred Revenue From Adoption Of ASC 606 $77.5


Deferred Revenue Balance as of 1/1/2018 $123.1


Source: ENPH 10Qs. PP Calculations.


PP Calculation Of Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Recognition
($ in millions) Q1 2018


Beginning Deferred Revenue Balance $123.1
(+) Envoy Billings $9.4
(-) Ending Deferred Revenue Balance ($115.7)


Implied Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Recognition $16.9


Source: ENPH 10Qs. Prescience Point estimates.


Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Recognition: Implied vs. Reported
($ in millions) Implied Reported Difference


Beginning Deferred Revenue Balance $123.1 $116.8 $6.3
(+) Envoy Billings $9.4 $9.4 $0.0
(-) Ending Deferred Revenue Balance ($115.7) ($115.7) $0.0


Q1 2018 Deferred Revenue Recognition $16.9 $10.6 $6.3


Source: ENPH 10Qs. Prescience Point estimates.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 36


 PP estimates that ENPH’s Q1 2018 gross margin was inflated by 40.7% or 765 bps: As shown in the table below, after adjusting ENPH’s 
results to exclude the impact of its deferred revenue accounting shenanigans and fluctuations in warranty accruals, we calculate 
that its adjusted Q1 2018 gross margin was just 18.8%.  Thus, we estimate that its reported Q1 2018 gross margin was inflated by 
40.7% or 765 bps!  We also estimate that its reported Q1 2018 revenue and gross profit were inflated by 11.9% and 57.5%, respectively.  
 





 Unusually large drawdown in deferred revenue balance indicates that ENPH’s Q2 2018 results were inflated by a similar amount 
as in Q1 2018: In Q2 2018, ENPH’s deferred revenue balance declined by $5.6m from $115.7m as of 3/31/2018 to $110.1m as of 6/30/2018, 
meaning that ENPH recognized $5.6m more deferred Envoy revenue than what it actually billed in the quarter. 
 


 
 
We believe this unusually large drawdown in its deferred revenue balance amounts to proof that the Company’s Q2 2018 results 
were inflated by a similar amount as in Q1 2018 by improper deferred revenue accounting.  In support, consider that Q2 2018 and 
Q1 2018 were the only two quarters from Q1 2013 to Q2 2018 in which recognized deferred revenue significantly exceeded billings. 
 


Prescience Point Adjusted Q1 2018 Financials
($ in millions) Q1 2018


Reported Revenue $70.0
(-) Benefit From Accelerated Amortization Of Deferred Revenue ($1.2)
(-) Benefit From Improper Deferred Revenue Recognition ($6.3)
PP Adjusted Non-GAAP Revenue $62.5


Revenue, % Overstatement in Reported Financials 11.9%


Reported Non-GAAP Gross Profit $18.5
(+) Reduction From Over-Accrual Of Warranty Expenses $0.7
(-) Benefit From Accelerated Amortization Of Deferred Revenue ($1.2)
(-) Benefit From Improper Deferred Revenue Recognition ($6.3)
PP Adjusted Non-GAAP Gross Profit $11.8
PP Adjusted Non-GAAP Gross Margin 18.8%
Reported Non-GAAP Gross Margin 26.5%


Gross Profit, % Overstatement in Reported Financials 57.5%


Gross Margin, % Overstatement in Reported Financials 40.7%


Source: ENPH 10Qs. Prescience Point estimates.


Q2 2018 Recognized Deferred Revenue vs. Billings
($ in millions) Q2'18


Beginning Deferred Revenue Balance $115.7
Ending Deferred Revenue Balance $110.1
Change in Deferred Revenue Balance ($5.6)


Recognized Deferred Revenue, Amount in Excess of Billings $5.6


Source: ENPH 10Qs.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 37








Our conclusion that ENPH’s Q1 2018 and Q2 2018 financial results were significantly inflated by improper deferred revenue accounting 
practices is further supported and, in our view, confirmed by the additional analysis which is presented below. 


 
 ENPH reported an anomalously large increase in revenue per inverter in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018: ENPH’s revenue per inverter increased 


by 19.9% YoY in Q1 2018 and 16.6% YoY in Q2 2018.  In our view, this unusually large increase in revenue per inverter confirms our 
analysis that ENPH’s Q1 2018 and Q2 2018 revenue were significantly inflated by deferred revenue accounting shenanigans. 
 
Consider that pricing for MLPE components typically decline around 5% - 10% per year.  As such, large increases in revenue per 
inverter, such as those reported in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018, should not occur absent accounting shenanigans.  This is clearly illustrated 
by the fact that, prior to Q1 2018, ENPH’s revenue per inverter had declined in every single quarter dating back to Q1 2014. 
 


Recognized Deferred Revenue: Amount In Excess Of / (Lower Than) Billings


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.  Prescience Point estimates.


($1.0) ($1.1) ($2.7)
($0.8)


$0.1 


($1.6)($2.2)($1.6) ($2.4) ($2.6)($2.1)
($2.5)


($4.3)
($2.3)


($2.2)($2.5)($1.4) ($2.2)($1.4)
($0.3)


$7.5 


$5.6 


($6.0)


($4.0)


($2.0)


$0.0


$2.0


$4.0


$6.0


$8.0


$10.0
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 38





 Management provided conflicting explanations for ENPH’s anomalous revenue per inverter increase: In an attempt to explain the 
large YoY increase in revenue per inverter in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018, ENPH management stated during its Q2 2018 earnings call that 
its transition to more small and medium sized or “long-tail” customers had resulted in a 10% to 15% increase in pricing over the past 
four to five quarters.  Provided below are management’s comments from the earnings call. 
 


Basically in the last four to five quarters what has happened is, because of our excellent pricing 
management we have gradually have transitioned from to few big accounts and more of a 
long tail accounts. Because of that our average price per microinverter has gone up nearly by 
10% to 15% 


  
However, this explanation directly contradicts management’s comments just a quarter earlier – During its Q1 2018 earnings call, 
management stated that pricing in Q1 2018 had remained flat and that the increase in its revenue per watt – which is closely tied 
to revenuer per inverter – in the quarter increased due to a change in product mix.  Management also stated that they had 
modeled a 2% price erosion per quarter for the remaining three quarters of 2018.  Provided below are management’s comments 
from the earnings call. 
 


Total net revenue per DC watt increased by 8% from the fourth quarter of 2017, largely as a result 
of changes in product mix… With regarding how we model pricing, we usually model a couple of 
percent every quarter. And historically, for Q1 '18, for example, our pricing was flat. There has been 
not much change. In fact, it was up a little bit. But we model 2% erosion, price erosion quarter-
on-quarter for the -- I mean for the 3 quarters in 2018. 





Revenue Per Inverter - YoY Growth


Source: ENPH earnings reports.


(5.9%) 
(5.9%) 


(10.5%) 


(4.8%) 


(11.5%) 
(13.3%) 


(17.0%) 


(8.9%) 


(12.9%) 


(16.3%) 


(5.8%) 
(7.3%) 


(9.0%) 


(3.1%) (4.4%) (5.0%) 


19.9% 
16.6% 


(20.0%)


(15.0%)


(10.0%)


(5.0%)


--


5.0%


10.0%


15.0%


20.0%
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 39


We do not believe that management could be so clueless about the recent pricing trends of its own business.  Instead, we believe 
management was unable to coherently answer such a simple and important question about its business because ENPH’s 
financial results are unsupportable. 
 


 Management could not credibly explain the $6.3m shortfall in its beginning Q1 2018 deferred revenue balance, while a forensic 
accountant agreed with our analysis: As mentioned earlier, our analysis indicates that, pro forma for ASC 606, ENPH’s Q1 2018 
beginning deferred revenue balance should have been $123.1m, $6.3m higher than what the $116.8m the Company reported. 
 
During its Q2 2018 earnings call, ENPH tried to explain away the $6.3m shortfall in its beginning Q1 2018 deferred revenue balance 
by claiming that it was due to a $6.4m invoice receivables adjustment (Note: ENPH quantified the discrepancy as being $6.4m 
rather than $6.3m).  However, the ASC 606 adjustments disclosed in ENPH’s Q1 2018 10-Q do not include an adjustment to its 
receivables balance.  Thus, we believe that management’s explanation is clearly bogus. 
 


 
 
Going a step further, we asked a forensic accountant to assess the validity of management’s explanation for the $6.3m shortfall 
in its deferred revenue balance.  Viewing the same information upon which we based our analysis, the accountant agreed with 
our assessment that ENPH’s explanation did not add up as it did not appear to be supported by the actual adjustments made to 
the Company’s financial statements. 
 


On its Q2’2018 Conference Call on 07/31/18, Enphase indicated the $6.4 million “gap” in the Q4’2017 
pro forma adjusted deferred revenue balance and the beginning deferred revenue balance (as 
of 01/01/18) in the Q1’2018 deferred revenue rollforward was “purely a balance sheet transaction” 
and related to an “invoice receivable” asset that offset the deferred revenue balance.  From an 
accounting perspective, it’s possible to book deferred revenue (i.e. credit) with a corresponding 
receivable (i.e. debit), but in our experience this doesn’t happen very often.  Generally, deferred 
revenue is booked when a Company actually receives cash.  Moreover, the ASC 606 adjustments 
provided in the Company’s Q1’2018 10Q do not show that any adjustments were made to 
accounts receivable; the only asset adjusted was deferred costs.  As a result, we are skeptical 
about the Company’s explanation as the commentary on the Conference Call is not supported 
by the adjustments provided in the Company’s financial statements.   
 
(Source: Forensic Accountant Report, 8/2/2018)
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 40


Even More Red Flags 


We have not even come close to covering all of our concerns regarding ENPH’s accounting methods and business practices, and won’t 
be able discuss many of them in this report. In the below sections, we will list some among the myriad of additional red flags which reinforce 
our opinion that ENPH’s financial reporting cannot be trusted. 
 
#1: Alarming deferred revenue accounting irregularities in Q4 2019 and Q1 2020 
 
Just as in Q1 2018 and Q2 2018, ENPH’s deferred revenue accounting methods in Q4 2019 and Q1 2020 do not add up. 
 
Before diving into our analysis, we will first provide a quick overview of the critical applicable concepts of deferred revenue accounting: 
 
Typically, when cash is prepaid before a service is provided, a company will book the cash as an asset, and will also book deferred revenue 
as a liability in an amount equal to the cash received.  Then, when the service is provided, the deferred revenue liability is recognized as 
revenue. 
 
For example, as shown in the figure below, if a customer makes a prepayment of $10, a company will add $10 to both its cash & equivalents 
and to its deferred revenue liabilities on its balance sheet.  Then, if the service is delivered in the next quarter, the company will recognize 
$10 of revenue in its income statement and convert the $10 of deferred revenue liabilities into equity. 
 


 
 
In its FY 2019 10-K, ENPH disclosed that it had received a $49.9m safe harbor prepayment in Q4 2019.  It also disclosed that $44.7m of the 
$49.9m of cash it received was being held in restricted cash as collateral for a letter of credit it issued in relation to the safe harbor 
prepayment it received from a customer. 
 


For the year ended December 31, 2019, contract liabilities include $49.9 million of safe harbor cash 
prepayments from its customers for products to be delivered in 2020, which represents the 
amount equal to the aggregate purchase price of the executed sales agreement. Of the $49.9 


Deferred Revenue Accounting: Illustrative Example


Income Statement


QTR 1 QTR 2


Revenue $0.0 $10.0


Balance Sheet


QTR 1 QTR 2


Assets:


Cash and Equivalents $10.0 $10.0
Total Assets $10.0 $10.0


Liabilities & Equity:


Deferred Revenue Liabilities $10.0 $0.0
Shareholders' Equity $0.0 $10.0
Total Liabilities + Equity $10.0 $10.0
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 41


million, a letter of credit of $44.7 million was issued for the benefit of one customer and the 
Company has collateralized under the letter of credit a certificate of deposit of $44.7 million.  
(Source: Pg. 75, ENPH FY 2019 10-K) 


 
One quarter later, in its Q1 2020 10-Q, ENPH puzzlingly disclosed that it had collected $52.9m of accounts receivable due to the delivery of 
safe harbor orders in Q1 2020 which were prepaid in Q4 2019. 
 


…changes in the working capital in the first quarter of 2020, compared to the same period in 2019, 
was primarily due to $38.0 million decrease in deferred revenue as we delivered safe harbor 
orders that were prepaid in the fourth quarter of 2019, $26.9 million decrease in accounts 
payable due to pay off of liabilities, $5.9 million increase in inventory and $2.6 million increase in 
prepaid expenses and other assets, partially offset by collections of $52.9 million of accounts 
receivable mainly driven by our safe harbor order deliveries in the first quarter of 2020 that was 
prepaid in the fourth quarter of 2019.  (Source: Pg. 36, ENPH Q1 2020 10-Q) 


 
ENPH’s deferred revenue accounting methods as described in the above disclosures do not reconcile with the proper GAAP accounting 
for deferred revenue outlined at the beginning of this section.  The Company’s disclosure that its accounts receivable balance fell by 
$52.9m during the quarter primarily due to safe harbor deliveries implies that, in addition to the $49.9m of cash it had already added to its 
balance sheet from safe harbor prepayments, it had added $49.9m to its accounts receivable balance in Q4 2019.  As shown in the figure 
below, this does not make any sense as adding $49.9m to both cash and equivalents and accounts receivable in Q4 2019 would have 
resulted in an imbalance of $49.9m on its balance sheet. 
 


 
 
Furthermore, we are puzzled as to why ENPH added $49.9m to its accounts receivable balance in the first place, given that it has no relation 
to deferred revenue.  Accounts receivable is defined as revenue that is recognized for services provided but not yet paid for by a customer.  
By contrast, a deferred revenue liability is a liability that is added to the balance sheet for cash that has been received from a customer 
for services which have not yet been provided. 
 


ENPH's Deferred Revenue Accounting
Does Not Reconcile With GAAP


($ in millions) Q4'19


Assets:


Cash and Equivalents $49.9
Accounts Receivable $49.9
Total Assets $99.8


Liabilities & Equity:


Deferred Revenue Liabilities $49.9
Shareholders' Equity $0.0
Total Liabilities + Equity $49.9


Total Assets - (Total Liabilities + Equity) $49.9


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC.  PP estimates.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 42


So, how exactly did ENPH manage to balance its balance sheet in Q4 2019 and Q1 2020 after adding $49.9m to both its cash and equivalents 
and accounts receivable balance?  Why and for what purpose is the Company using accounts receivable as part of its deferred revenue 
accounting?  Unfortunately, only ENPH management can answer these questions.  However, what we do know is that ENPH’s deferred 
revenue accounting practices in Q4 2019 and Q1 2020 do not add up, and amount to yet another red flag that the Company’s financial 
reporting cannot be trusted. 
 
#2: A troubling, undisclosed acquisition 
 
In January 2018, ENPH apparently acquired a business which was co-founded by one of its mid-level executives – who is a former SunEdison 
and Cypress alum (surprise, surprise) and who attended the same college as Kothandaraman at around the same time – but troublingly 
failed to disclose this apparent acquisition of a current employee’s business in its SEC filings.  Even worse, it appears that ENPH improperly 
excluded the amount it paid to acquire this related party from its FY 2018 financial statements, providing even further proof that the 
Company’s reported financials cannot be trusted. 
 
As disclosed on his LinkedIn profile, Jithender Majjiga joined ENPH in June 2017 and currently serves as the VP of World Class Costs, Program 
Management. 
 


 
 
As also disclosed on his LinkedIn profile, prior to joining ENPH, Majjiga had co-founded an energy storage startup called ActivStor, which 
Majjiga revealed was acquired by ENPH in January 2018.  Given that Majjiga was an ENPH employee when this acquisition occurred, we 
believe it should have been disclosed in the Company’s SEC filings as a related party transaction.  Yet, puzzlingly it was not.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 43


 
 
Interestingly, Majjiga previously worked at SunEdison for more than 4 years and before that at Cypress for around 16 years.  He also attended 
the same college as Kothandaraman – Indian Institute of Technology – from 1988 to 1992 which is around the same time that 
Kothandaraman attended.  These years of shared work and education experiences with other ENPH executives, and particularly with 
Kothandaraman, indicates that the Company’s acquisition of ActivStor, presuming that Majjiga’s profile is accurate, raises the serious 
question as to the business purpose behind the transaction, and which could amount to an egregious misappropriation of shareholder 
capital. 
 


 
 
Perhaps most troubling is the fact that ENPH appears to have completely excluded the amount it paid to acquire ActivStor from its FY 2018 
cash flow statement, a clear violation of GAAP accounting rules. 
 
As shown in the below figure, ENPH’s reported cash invested in acquisitions in FY 2018 amounted to $15m, the entire amount of which was 
for the acquisition of SunPower’s microinverter.  
 


Source: LinkedIn
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 44


 
 
Furthermore, as shown in the below figure, ENPH’s cash flow statement also does not include any common stock issued for the ActivStor 
acquisition.  The entire $19.2m of common stock issued for acquisitions, based on the Company’s own disclosures, reflected in the cash 
flow statement was for the acquisition of SunPower’s microinverter business.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 45


#3: Suspiciously large amount of reported safe harbor revenue 
 
We believe the legitimacy of ENPH’s reported safe harbor revenue from Q3 2019 to Q1 2020 totaling $88.9m is also highly questionable. 
Effective January 1, 2020, the Investment Tax Credit (“ITC”) for the US solar industry stepped down from 30% to 26%.  However, as per the IRS’s 
safe harbor agreement issued in June 2018, solar components shipped in the first 3.5 months of 2020 could still qualify for the 30% tax credit, 
so long as the components were paid for in 2019.  This, as expected, led to a meaningful amount of advanced purchasing by several solar 
distributors and installers toward the end of 2019. 
 
From Q3 2019 to Q1 2020, ENPH reported a total of $88.9m in safe harbor revenue from its customers – $8.0m in Q3 2019, $36.4m in Q4 2019 
and $44.5m in Q1 2020.  The Company has stated that it will not recognize any safe harbor revenue in Q2 2020. 
 
When compared to competitor SEDG, the amount of safe harbor revenue ENPH has reported appears suspiciously large, especially after 
adjusting for sales to SunPower.  As disclosed in its FY 2019 10-K, safe harbor sales to SunPower amounted to $5.2m, meaning that ENPH’s 
total safe harbor sales excluding SunPower totaled $83.7m.  This represents 20.1% of ENPH’s FY 2019 US revenue, adjusted for the exclusion of 
$70.9m in SunPower sales, of $416.3m.  By comparison, SEDG expects to generate a total of $71.1m in safe harbor revenue – $54.1m in Q1 2020 
and a projected $17.0m in Q2 2020 – which represents just 10.5% of its reported FY 2019 US revenue of $678.6m. 
 


 
 
We believe the only legitimate way that ENPH could have generated such a large amount of safe harbor revenue is by offering massive 
discounts to its customers to buy product before the end of 2019.  However, this explanation does not align with the fact that ENPH reported 
a robust gross margin of 37.1% in Q4 2019 and an all-time record gross margin of almost 40% in Q1 2020.  So, just like its deferred revenue 
accounting in Q4 2019 and Q1 2020, the only thing we can say with certainty is that ENPH’s reported safe harbor revenue does not add up 
and appears to us as yet another red flag suggesting that the Company’s reported financials are fiction. 
 
#4: Negative Glassdoor reviews support some of the key findings of our research 
 
Also concerning are the poor reviews ENPH has received on Glassdoor from current and former employees, several of whom echoed many 
of the same issues and concerns which have been highlighted in this report. 


ENPH's Safe Harbor Sales As a % Of Reported FY'19 US Revenue
Is Almost Double That Of SEDG


Source: ENPH and SEDG filings with the SEC and earnings reports.


(1) Excludes $70.9m of total sales to SunPower in FY'19 and $5.2m of safe harbor sales to SunPower.


20.1%


10.5%


0.0%


5.0%


10.0%


15.0%


20.0%


25.0%


ENPH SEDG(1)
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 46


 
For example, in a review posted on August 2019 titled “B-Team of Cypress,” one current employee appeared to express frustration about 
the presence of former Cypress employees within the Company.  This individual also stated that ENPH’s numbers were inflated due to the 
influence of “Ahmad Chatila & Co.”  This individual then went on to claim that current management’s intention was to “milk the cow dry” 
before the Company goes bankrupt.  
 


 
 
As another example, in a review posted on February 2020 titled “Stop BS!!,” a current employee in India claimed that ENPH was caught in 
the “clutches of CY gang,” which we assume is in reference to the large number of former Cypress employees at the Company.  This 
individual then went on to claim that former Cypress employees were given preferential treatment and that non-Cypress employees were 
treated as “outsiders.”
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 47





 
 
Although the above represents the views of just a couple of employees, as evidenced by ENPH’s low average rating of 2.9 stars and low 
CEO approval rate of 43% on Glassdoor, numerous other current and former employees appear to have similarly negative views. 
 


 
 
By comparison, SEDG has a significantly higher average review rating of 3.8 stars on Glassdoor with a 100% CEO approval rate.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 48


 
 
#5: Elevated accounts receivable balance 
 
As found in numerous past frauds, an elevated accounts receivable balance, particularly one that is growing at a faster pace than revenue, 
is a red flag that reported revenue may have been misstated or improperly manipulated.  ENPH exhibits this red flag. 
 
ENPH’s accounts receivable days (“AR days”) have increased significantly during Kothandaraman’s tenure as CEO.  As shown in the figure 
below, during the three years from FY 2014 to FY 2016, AR days averaged 55.6.  By contrast, during the most recent 3.25 years from FY 2017 to 
Q1 2020, average AR days increased by almost 30% to 71.8 days.  
 





Average AR Days Have Increased By 29.2% Under Kothandaraman


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.


55.6 


71.8 


30.0


35.0


40.0


45.0


50.0


55.0


60.0


65.0


70.0


75.0


FY'14 to FY'16 FY'17 to Q1'20
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 49


Given our conclusions from the findings of our research which suggest that Kothandaraman & Co. will go to almost any length to inflate 
ENPH’s financial performance, we suspect that this increase in AR days is not benign.  Instead, we suspect that the Company may be using 
its accounts receivable balance as another tool to further inflate its financial performance. 
 
#6: Overly promotional management 
 
We are always wary of management teams who appear to be more focused on the stock price rather than the operations of their 
company.  This can often be an indication that management is more concerned with lining its own pockets at any cost, rather than building 
sustainable long-term shareholder value. 
 
With Ahmad Chatila at the helm, SunEdison was known for frequently issuing fluff press releases seemingly with the intention of pumping 
up its stock price.  Chatila would also often make bold public proclamations about SunEdison’s shares, and at one point predicted that 
SunEdison’s market cap would someday reach $350 billion. 
 
Not surprisingly, given Chatila’s apparently deep involvement, ENPH appears to have adopted some of the same tactics that SunEdison 
previously employed, seemingly in an attempt to promote and inflate the value of its shares.  For example, in a GTM article published in 
July 2018, the Company’s VP of Marketing proclaimed with an unusual amount of bravado and certainty that ENPH shares were going “to 
the moon.” 
 


After a scary dip in share prices over the past few years and the risk of a Nasdaq delisting* last 
summer, the acquisition marks an upward trajectory that will continue, according to Enphase 
Vice President of Marketing and Pricing JD Dillon, during an interview at Intersolar North America.  
 
“The amount of profitable growth in front of the company, we know how to do it, the path is clear,” 
he said, adding that the share price is “going to go up — higher. Quote me on that. To the moon!” 


 
Further evidence of ENPH’s overly promotional ways can be seen in its frequent issuance of press releases, a good portion of which are 
often short on details and long on fluff.  For example, ENPH issued 51 press releases in FY 2019 alone (here).  This was almost 2.5x the 21 press 
release that SEDG issued in the same year (here).  Similarly, in FY 2018, ENPH issued 50 press releases (here) which again was almost 2.5x 
the 21 that SEDG issued in the same year (here). 


 
PP Estimates That At Least $205.3m Of ENPH’s FY 2019 Reported US Revenue Was Fabricated, 
And That A Significant Portion Of Its International Revenue Was Also Fabricated 


To reiterate, in our view, the overwhelming evidence presented in this report proves to us that ENPH is grossly inflating its reported revenue.   
 
We can use the Wood Mackenzie market share data to provide a reasonable estimate from which to derive how much ENPH inflated its 
reported US revenue in FY 2019.  According to Wood Mackenzie, total megawatts (“MWs”) installed in the US residential solar sector from FY 
2017 to FY 2019 increased by a cumulative total of 26.1% from 2,239 MWs in FY 2017 to 2,822 MWs in FY 2019.  Based on this, and the decrease 
in ENPH’s market share from 25.4% in FY 2017 to 20.3% in FY 2019, we calculate that MWs of ENPH products installed in the US residential solar 
sector increased by a cumulative total of just 1.7% YoY from 562 MWs in FY 2017 to 572 MWs in FY 2019.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 50


 
 
According to the distributors that we contacted, pricing for ENPH products declined by around mid-to-high single digits from FY 
2017 to FY 2019.   However, for the purposes of being conservative, we have assumed that pricing for ENPH products remained flat 
from FY 2017 and FY 2019.  Assuming flat pricing, the Wood Mackenzie data implies that ENPH’s US revenue growth from FY 2017 to 
FY 2019, excluding sales to SunPower, should have been roughly equal to the growth in MWs installed of 1.7%.   
 
Based on 1.7% cumulative growth, the Wood Mackenzie data implies that ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue, which excludes 
one-time safe harbor sales and sales to SunPower, grew from $199.6m in FY 2017 to $202.9m in FY 2019.  By comparison, as shown 
in the figure below, ENPH’s adjusted reported US revenue was $408.3m in FY 2019, exceeding the revenue implied by the Wood 
Mackenzie data by $205.3m.  Based on this, we conclude that at least $205.3m of ENPH’s reported US revenue in FY 2019 was 
fabricated. 
 


 
 
Based on our estimate that at least $205.3m of ENPH’s reported US revenue is fabricated, as well as the $44.4m of safe harbor revenue ENPH 
reported in FY 2019, we calculate that ENPH’s ‘actual and sustainable’ FY 2019 revenue, which excludes fabricated revenue and one-time 
safe harbor revenue, was $273.8m, which is $249.7m or 47.7% lower than what it reported. 
 


Based On Wood Mackenzie Data,
MWs Installed Of ENPH Products Excluding Sales To SunPower


Grew By A Cumulative Total Of Just 1.7% From FY 2017 to FY 2019


($ in millions) FY'17 FY'18 FY'19


MWs Installed - US Residential Solar Market 2,239 2,445 2,822


Market Share - ENPH (1) 25.1% 18.5% 20.3%


Implied MWs Installed - ENPH (1) 562 453 572


YoY Growth - % (19.4%) 26.1%
Cumulative Growth - % 1.7%


Source: Wood MacKenzie US MLPE market share data.
(1) Excludes direct sales to Sunpower.


Wood Mackenzie Data Implies That ENPH's Reported FY 2019 US Revenue
Was Inflated By At Least $205.3m


Adjusted Reported FY 2019 US Revenue: Implied Inflation of FY 2019 Revenue:


($ in millions) FY'17 FY'18 FY'19 ($ in millions) FY'17 FY'19


Reported US Revenue $199.6 $219.6 $523.6 Adjusted Reported US Revenue $199.6 $408.3
Less: SunPower Revenue 0.0 (12.4) (70.9) % Growth 104.6%
Less: Safe Harbor Revenue 0.0 0.0 (44.4) Wood Mackenzie Implied Revenue 199.6 202.9
Adjusted Reported US Revenue $199.6 $207.2 $408.3 % Growth 1.7%


YoY Growth 3.8% 97.0%
Cumulative Growth 104.6% Implied Inflation of US Revenue - $ $205.3


Source: Wood Mackenzie data.  ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 51


 
 
Based on the evidence we developed, we also believe that ENPH’s international revenue has also been significantly inflated.  This is based 
on the fact that, as discussed earlier, multiple former employees and an employee of a solar distributor in India told our investigators that 
they believed the astronomical growth in ENPH’s revenue from the Indian market – which reportedly increased by around 7x from $0.9m in 
FY 2018 to $6.5m in FY 2019 – was grossly fabricated.  Furthermore, as also discussed earlier, an employee of a solar distributor in India 
expressed to us a belief that the Company was forging invoices in an effort to inflate its revenue.  Given these factors, and the apparent 
great lengths to which ENPH will go to fabricate its financials, we believe it is reasonable to assume that the Company’s reported revenue 
has been similarly inflated in other international countries as well. 


 
PP Believes That Most, If Not All, Of The Increase In ENPH’s Gross Margin During 
Kothandaraman’s Tenure Was Fabricated As Well 


In this report, as well as in our initial reports, we presented proof, in our view, that almost all of the 43.7% or 804 bps increase in ENPH’s 
reported gross margin from 18.4% in Q2 2017 to 26.5% in Q1 2018 was attributable to deferred revenue accounting shenanigans.  Furthermore, 
as detailed in this report, the nearly impossible decline of 37.6%, on a tariff-adjusted basis, of ENPH’s cost of revenue per watt from Q3 2018 
to Q3 2019 amounts to proof, in our view, that the Company’s cost of revenue and, in turn, its reported gross margins during that timeframe 
were fabricated and grossly inflated. 
 
Based on all of the above, we believe it is reasonable to conclude that most, if not all, of the astounding 2,080 Bps expansion in ENPH’s 
reported gross margin from 18.4% in Q2 2017 to 39.2% in Q1’20 is likely fiction.   


SEDG’s Former CEO And A Mainstream Financial Journalist Have 
Expressed Skepticism About ENPH’s Reported Financials 


ENPH’s reported revenue growth has become so disconnected from reality that SEDG’s former CEO and a mainstream financial journalist 
have recently taken notice independently and called it into question. 
 
During SEDG’s Q2 2019 earnings call on August 6th, 2019, founder and former SEDG CEO Guy Sella, who sadly passed away in late August 2019 
from a battle with cancer, appeared to cast doubt on the legitimacy of ENPH’s reported revenue figures in his final public comments as 
SEDG’s CEO.  Prior to this, we had never seen a public company CEO even imply that a competitor’s financial performance may be 
manipulated, but perhaps Sella was emboldened to speak out given his deteriorating health condition. 
 


PP Estimates That ENPH's 'Actual And Sustainable' US Revenue
Was ~$250m Lower Than Its Reported US Revenue In FY 2019


($ in millions) FY'19


Reported US Revenue $523.6
Less: PP Estimate Of Fabricated Revenue (205.3)
Less: One-Time Safe Harbor Revenue (44.4)
'Actual and Sustainable' US Revenue $273.8


Discount To Reported Revenue - $ $249.7
Discount To Reported Revenue - % (47.7%)


Source: ENPH filings with the SEC and earnings reports.  PP estimates.
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 52


During the call, Sella commented that Wood MacKenzie, which he highlighted as being the only objective market share data source in the 
industry, had shown that SEDG’s market share had increased in Q1 2019 despite ENPH’s rapid growth in the quarter.  He then closed by 
speculating that ENPH’s reported revenue numbers may be the result of inventory build, and thus may not accurately reflect market 
demand.  Based on our interpretation, it appears that Sella was implying that ENPH’s reported revenue figures were inflated and may be 
the result of channel stuffing. 
 
The relevant comments from Sella during the Q2 2019 earnings call are provided below: 
 


Just before the closing remark, in all of the last calls, people were asking us about the market 
share of us against the other MLP companies. This time, it hasn't been us, but I decided to help 
you a bit and give you the details from the only objective source in the market. So, as we said in 
the past, there is no ability for a company to measure market share of newly installed systems. 
The only one who does it constantly is media Greentech Media. Since Q1 2018, Greentech Media 
show steady growth of SolarEdge market share in the U.S. residential market from 45.7% in Q1 2018 
to 59.5% in Q1 2019. At the same time, tells Greentech Media again the other MLP company market 
share from 23.1% into in Q1 2018 to 17.1% to Q1 2019. As you may know, the other MLP company 
acquired the micro inverter business of SunPower on August 2018. And since this quarter, they 
also include the sales of SunPower. Even when combining or taken into -- the share of the other 
MLP company, the SunPower micro inverter business since Q4 2018, the combined share 
decreased from 29.2% in Q4 2018 to 26.8% in Q1 2019. 
 
Lastly to those who try to calculate market share from reported shipments, the shipment 
number are not representing market share trends and these are affected by customer 
inventory. I hope this will give you the motivation to get into the numbers of market share from 
Greentech Media rather from the shipment numbers that companies (ENPH) reported on 
themselves. 


 
Jamie Powell from the Financial Times also called ENPH’s recent growth into question in an article published on February 28th titled 
“Enphase’s Particularly Peculiar Parabolic Growth.”  Financial journalists infrequently write articles questioning the accuracy of a company’s 
financial reporting, so to see one do so was quite eyebrow raising. 
 
In the article, Mr. Powell presented analysis, similar to what we provided earlier, which showed that ENPH’s large increase in reported 
revenue in 2019 did not add up when compared to market share data from Wood McKenzie.  He also noted that ENPH curiously declined to 
offer an explanation for the large discrepancy between its reported revenue and the Wood McKenzie data, and that the executive team 
was equally as cagey when asked by buyside analysts about the same topic.  Finally, he concluded, just as we did, that Guy Sella appeared 
to question the accuracy of ENPH’s reported growth during SEDG’s Q2 2019 earnings call.   
 
The relevant extracts from Mr. Powell’s article are: 
 


Its main competitor, SolarEdge, has also questioned Enphase’s growth. On 2019’s second quarter 
conference call former chief executive, the late Guy Sella, discussed Enphase’s growth versus its
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 53


reported market share…Throwing shade at a competitor on a conference call is relatively rare, 
so let’s get into those Greentech Media market share numbers to see if Sella still has a point. 
 
Provided by the energy research and consultancy Wood Mackenzie, the Greentech Media 
installation data is collected from a variety of trade sources…the disparity is striking isn’t it? 
Enphase managed to double US sales almost every quarter last year, but its market share 
stayed pretty much flat through to the third quarter. 
 
We wanted to hear an explanation from Enphase, but it declined to comment for this story even 
after we presented some of our calculations to them. Parsing the recent conference call 
transcripts, its executive suite is equally as cagey about discussing the topic. 


Revisiting The Sudden Resignation Of Former CFO Bert Garcia In 2018 


On May 1, 2018, ENPH announced that Mr. Garcia was resigning as CFO and would be departing the Company at the end of June. 
 


Enphase Energy…today announced that its Chief Financial Officer, Bert Garcia, is leaving the 
Company to pursue other opportunities. Enphase has an external search underway to identify 
a replacement. Garcia will continue as CFO until June 30, 2018...  (Source: ENPH 5/1/2018 press 
release) 


 
On the surface, Mr. Garcia’s sudden departure after eight long years at the Company made little sense at the time.  Why would he 
suddenly leave right at the moment when ENPH’s financial performance appeared to finally be turning a corner? 
 
However, given the findings of our research and our private investigation which have been detailed in this report, his sudden departure 
makes a lot more sense.  Consider that Mr. Garcia announced that he was leaving ENPH right around the same time that the Company 
was reporting its Q1 2018 earnings – the quarter in which we believe ENPH’s apparent accounting irregularities began.  This leads us to 
conclude that Mr. Garcia likely jumped ship because 1) he was not comfortable putting his name behind the numbers ENPH was 
reporting to investors in Q1 2018, and/or 2) he wanted to avoid any potential fallout that would result if the company’s accounting issues 
were eventually exposed as they have been in this report. 


Public Interest Statement 


We believe the information contained in this report about ENPH’s apparently fraudulent accounting practices is a matter of public interest. 
ENPH is a publicly traded company on the NASDAQ with a market capitalization of almost $7Bn. Some of the Company's largest investors 
include high profile institutional investment firms whose clients, in turn, include many retail investors and institutional retirement funds. 
 
Also, ENPH has raised more than $517m from convertible debt offerings over the past two years and may seek to raise additional money in 
the future from other capital market participants.  Based on the research we have provided in this report, it is our opinion that investors in
presciencepoint.com  @presciencepoint














Enphase Energy, Inc. (NASDAQ: ENPH) 54


the Company’s previous convertible offerings and in any future offerings could face exposure to significant financial loss if our 
comprehensive research is confirmed. 
 
Thus, given the potentially negative financial impact that ENPH’s actions could have on its large and diverse investor base, we believe it is 
important to disclose our findings about the Company in a published report.  As noted in our disclaimer, we do have a short interest in 
securities of ENPH.
© 2018 Prescience Point Capital Management. All rights reserved. 








Disclaimer 


This research report expresses our research opinions, the basis for which is fully set out in this research report.  Any 
investment involves substantial risks, including complete loss of capital.  Any forecasts or estimates are for illustrative 
purpose only and should not be taken as limitations of the maximum possible loss or gain. Any information contained in 
this report may include forward looking statements, expectations, and projections.  You should assume these types of 
statements, expectations, and projections may turn out to be incorrect for reasons beyond Prescience Point Capital 
Management’s (“Prescience Point”) control. This report should only be considered in its entirety. Each section should be read 
in the context of the entire report, and no section, paragraph, sentence or phrases is intended by its authors to stand alone 
or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report. The section headings contained in this report are 
for reference purposes only and may only be considered in reference to the detailed statements of opinions in their 
respective sections.   This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of Prescience Point’s research is 
at your own risk.  You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect 
to securities covered herein. 


You should assume that as of the publication date of any report or letter, Prescience Point (possibly along with or through 
our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a short 
position in all stocks (and/or are long puts/short call options of the stock) covered herein, including without limitation 
Enphase Energy (“ENPH”), and therefore stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of its stock declines. 
Following publication of any report or letter, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we 
may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  


This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any 
person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.   


To the best of our ability and belief, as of the date hereof, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and 
does not omit to state material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has 
been obtained from sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the 
stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other 
person or entity that was breached by the transmission of information to Prescience Point.  However, Prescience Point 
recognizes that there may be non-public information in the possession of ENPH or other insiders of ENPH that has not been 
publicly disclosed by ENPH and is unknown to Prescience Point. Therefore, such information contained herein is presented 
“as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied.  Prescience Point makes no other representations, express 
or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 
obtained from its use.
