5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 1/12


World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short
Sep. 13, 2013 9:38 AM ET31 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


I'm going to stick my neck out and share my view on a battleground stock that is among
my largest short positions: World Acceptance Corp. (NASDAQ:WRLD).


World Acceptance is an installment lender that makes small, unsecured loans to subprime
borrowers via 1,210 offices in 13 states and Mexico. It has highly attractive financial
characteristics and has grown strongly for many years, leading to exceptional stock
performance. Keep in mind, however, that these statements also characterized subprime
mortgage lenders like Countrywide up to the peak of the housing bubble -- just before it
collapsed. Like them, I believe that World Acceptance is a truly predatory company,
victimizing and exploiting its customers with usurious interest rates, outrageous fees and
overpriced, unnecessary credit insurance. This business is so shady and exploitative that
it is effectively outlawed in all but the 13 states World Acceptance operates in.


I became aware of the company by reading an expose published by ProPublica, which
has won two Pulitzer Prizes for its investigative journalism. Its series of articles on World
Acceptance is an extraordinary piece of work that lays out in detail the many ways in
which the company deceives and defrauds its customers. Here are the highlights
(lowlights) from the series:



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WRLD

http://www.marketplace.org/topics/wealth-poverty/beyond-payday-loans
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 2/12


Repeat Refinancing of Delinquent Borrowers


• In every World office, employees say, there were loan files that had grown inches
thick after dozens of renewals. "That's (World's) favorite phrase: 'pay and renew, pay
and renew, pay and renew,'" Simmons said. "It was drilled into us." It's a tempting
offer: Instead of just scrambling for the money to make that month's payment, the
borrower gets some money back. And the renewal pushes the loan's next due date
30 days into the future, buying time."


• "For Sutton, making her monthly payments was always a struggle. She
remembered that when she called World to let them know she was going to be late
with a payment, they insisted that she come in and renew the loan instead."


• World's credit quality is a fiction, a substantial number of customers can't repay and
are repeatedly refinanced. "At World, a normal month begins with about 30 percent
of customers late on their payments, former employees recalled."


Comments on Deceptive Sales of Credit Insurance


• "Former World employees say they were instructed not to tell customers the
insurance is voluntary."


• "World can legally understate the true cost of credit because of loopholes in federal
law that allow lenders to package nearly useless insurance products with their loans
and omit their cost when calculating the annual rate."


• "As part of her loan, Sutton purchased credit life insurance, credit disability
insurance, automobile insurance and non-recording insurance. She, like other
borrowers ProPublica interviewed, cannot tell you what any of them are for: 'They
talk so fast when you get that loan. They go right through it, real gibberish.'"


• "'Every new person who came in, we always hit and maximized with the insurance,'
said Matthew Thacker, who worked as an assistant manager at a World branch in
Tifton, Ga., from 2006 to 2007. 'That was money that went back to the company.'"


• "When insurance products are optional - meaning the borrower can deny coverage
but still get the loan - borrowers must sign a form saying they understand that. 'We
were told not to point that out,' said Thacker, the former Tifton, Ga., assistant
manager."
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 3/12


• "'You were supposed to tell the customer you could not do the loan without them
purchasing all of the insurance products, and you never said 'purchase,''' Buys
recalled. 'You said they are 'included with the loan' and focused on how wonderful
they are.'"


• A regional supervisor threatened to discipline a sales person for advising
customers that the insurance was voluntary.


• World's systems don't let a customer decline the optional insurance: "But World
soon made it harder to remove the insurance premiums,' Buys said. She couldn't
remove them herself but instead had to submit a form, along with a letter from the
customer, to World's central office. That office, she said, sometimes required
borrowers to purchase the insurance in order to get the loans."


Threatening Customers in Violation of FTC Rules


• "If the phone calls don't work, the next step is to visit the customer at home,
'chasing,' in the company lingo. 'If somebody hung up on us, we would go chase
their house,' said Kristin from Texas. The experience can be intimidating for
customers, especially when coupled with threats to seize their possessions, but the
former employees said they dreaded it, too. 'That was the scariest part,' recalled
Thacker, a former Marine, who as part of his job at World often found himself driving,
in the evening, deep into the Georgia countryside to knock on a borrower's door."


• "Visits to the borrower's workplace are also common. The visits and calls at work
often continue even after borrowers ask the company to stop, according to
complaints from World customers to the Federal Trade Commission. Some
borrowers complained the company's harassment risked getting them fired."


• World also threatened to collect personal possessions pledged as collateral even
though the FTC bars pledging "household goods" such as a TV and furniture.


The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau was established precisely to combat practices
like World's. As the ProPublica article notes:


The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ... has the power to sue non-bank
lenders for violating federal laws. It could also make larger installment lenders
subject to regular examinations, but it hasn't yet done so. Installment companies
have supported Republican efforts to weaken the agency, echoing concerns raised
by the lending industry as a whole.
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 4/12


Will the CFPB act to rein in World and its ilk? I think it's likely, as it's already acting against
payday lenders, which utilize similar techniques to victimize consumers. In April, the CFPB
released a report entitled Payday Loans & Deposit Advance Products, which the Wall
Street Journal covered in an article entitled, U.S. Regulators to Warn Against Payday-
Style Loans:


Federal regulators are preparing to crack down on short-term payday loans and
similar products offered by banks after concluding they trap consumers into taking
on debt that they can't repay.


The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
in an effort to prevent so-called direct deposit advance loans, plan to warn banks
against offering such products and erect hurdles for those that continue doing so,
said people familiar with the matter.


The regulators plan to issue guidance mandating that banks evaluate consumers'
ability to repay such loans and limit how often they can make repeated loans to the
same customer.


Meanwhile, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said it also intends to throw
up roadblocks to payday loans, suggesting it could limit the number of consecutive
loans to discourage consumers from taking on too much debt. 
 
The CFPB, in a report to be released Wednesday, said it expects to use its authority
to provide consumer protections to loans issued by nonbank lenders.


Dennis Shaul, chief executive of the Community Financial Services Association of
America, which represents payday lenders, said his industry would "work with the
CFPB to ensure payday loans are a safe, reliable option for the millions of
consumers who need access" to short-term loans.


The crackdown comes amid criticism of short-term loans that are intended to help
consumers through a financial rough patch but can quickly trap them in a cycle of
debt, in which they need to take out subsequent loans to pay debts they have
already incurred.


In late July the company finally issued its 10K, which was delayed, and dropped these
bombs (which are most definitely not boilerplate):



http://files.consumerfinance.gov/f/201304_cfpb_payday-dap-whitepaper.pdf

http://online.wsj.com/article/SB10001424127887323551004578441003256035788.html/
5/23/2018 World Acceptance: A Battleground Stock I'm Short - World Acceptance Corporation (NASDAQ:WRLD) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1690342-world-acceptance-a-battleground-stock-im-short 5/12


