1 | P a g e  
 


               GlassHouse Research 


09/19/17 





NuVasive C-Suite Jumps Ship as NUVA Bares Similar Accounting Concerns 


to Electronics for Imaging 


























Who is GlassHouse Research? GlassHouse Research (GHR), a division of GlassHouse, LLC is 


made up of forensic accountants/analysts who have worked for prominent hedge funds on 


Wall Street, as well as boutique forensic accounting firms. Our purpose is to expose public 


companies that have been taking advantage of US GAAP as well as IFRS accounting 


standards for their benefit. We seek to find companies where GAAP (or even worse, non-


GAAP) earnings are deviating from true economic earnings of the target firm. 


Overall, we search for evidence of a “culture of fraud” within public companies. 


Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, GlassHouse, LLC and others that contributed research to this report and 


others that we have shared our research with (collectively, the “Authors”) have short positions in, and own put option positions 


on, the stock of NuVasive, Inc. (NUVA) and stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following 


publication of the report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company covered herein. All content in this report 


represent the opinions of GHR. The Authors have obtained all information herein from sources they believe to be accurate and 


reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. The 


Authors make no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or 


with regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and the 


Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information contained herein. Please read our full legal 


disclaimer at the end of the report.
2 | P a g e  
 


Initiation of NuVasive, Inc. (NUVA) with a Price Target of $24.18 


GlassHouse Research wants the reader to understand the magnitude of both the firm’s 


President/COO and CFO leaving abruptly at a time when there is a profusion of accounting red 


flags at NUVA. Our analysts do not believe in coincidences at this scale and based on our own 


expertise, we believe this will turn out badly for all involved at NuVasive, Inc. In a previous 


report on EFII, the firm missed earnings in the three periods after we exposed accounting 


issues at the company with it finally reporting a material weakness sending the stock down 


40% in one day. We believe the accounting issues here at NUVA are worse and believe the firm 


will miss badly to the downside in the upcoming one to three quarters.  


• NUVA organic revenue starts to trend negative, which puts its growth by acquisition strategy at 


risk: While the firm is touting its $1 billion revenue goal this year, it looks like its acquire-at-all-


cost strategy to get there will burn them in the end. Based on our own calculations, we believe 


that the core business is suffering greatly at NUVA and is being masked by recent acquisitions. 





• The following accounting irregularities will act as material headwinds in future periods leading 


to substantial negative earnings surprises:  


o Inventory diagnostics provide evidence of channel stuffing at NUVA with inventories 


standing at a five-year seasonal high relative to sales.  


o Management blames its recent AR/DSO spike on a transitory item in its NCS division, 


however our analysts believe this rather stems from the pulling forward of future 


revenue. 


o In our view, NUVA has been delaying normalized expenses based on its accrued 


expenses, especially in light of the recent plummet relative to total sales. We calculate 


this under-expense benefited the firm by 22.0% of non-GAAP earnings over the TTM.  





• Sell-side analysts are fooled by deceiving non-GAAP exclusions that GHR will expose as neither 


non-recurring nor non-cash expenses: NUVA has borrowed from the Valeant playbook and 


has employed an “acquire at all cost” model that has helped them to artificially inflate true 


earnings. TTM non-GAAP income ($1.77) now stands 185.5% above GAAP income of $0.62, 


representing the highest difference in NUVA’s history. Persistent material exclusions of 


intangible amortization expenses and business transaction costs obfuscate NUVA’s true 


sustainable earnings.  





• Management appears to be jumping ship adding a time-catalyst to our thesis: High ranking 


executives Quentin Blackford (former CFO) and Jason Hannon (former COO) have abruptly 


packed their bags and left the company within the last three months.
3 | P a g e  
 


Key Similarities Between EFI and NuVasive 


Key Characteristic Electronics for Imaging NuVasive Inc. 


Business Strategy 


CEO leads race to $1 billion goal 


in revenue to appear “more 


attractive” to investors 


Race to the goal of $1 billion in 


sales; whether organic or acquired 


Corporate Culture 


Managers in key positions lacked 


proper accounting experience 


Prior CEO ousted for violations, 


recent COO&CFO jumping ship, and 


a suspicious transaction related to 


sales milestones 


Reported Organic Revenue Figures 


Does not disclose organic revenue 


growth figures to obfuscate real 


growth 


The firm reports sporadic core / pro-


forma / segment growth figures 


without any consistency 


Depressed Spending on R&D 


Expenses 


Miniscule amount of money spent on 


R&D and excluded amortization 


expenses 


Uses an acquire R&D strategy that 


aesthetically makes margins look 


better 


Questionable Use of Non-GAAP 


Exclusions  


Non-GAAP earnings significantly 


diverged from GAAP earnings  


Non-GAAP earnings significantly 


diverged from GAAP earnings for 5 


of the past 6 years 


Highly Negative Adjusted Free-


Cash-Flow (FCF) Figures 


FCF while reported positive, stood 


at –$52.6 million at the end of Q2 


2016 with acquisitions 


FCF while reported positive, stood 


at –$426.7 million at the end of 


FY2016 with acquisitions 


Accounting Concerns 


Concerns with acquisition 


accounting, spring-loading, 


channel-stuffing, misclassifying 


AR, and adequacy of warranties 


Spikes in DSI/DSO metrics coupled 


with plummeting accrued expenses 


spawn balance sheet concerns 


End Result 


The firm’s stock price fell over 40% 


in one day as the company faces 


accounting errors from revenue 


recognition 


????????
4 | P a g e  
 


Company Background 


NuVasive, Inc., (NUVA) is a medical device company that designs and markets minimally-


disruptive surgical products and procedurally-integrated solutions for spine surgery. Its 


products focus on applications for spine fusion surgery, including biologics used for spinal 


fusion process. The company’s principal product is Maximum Access Surgery (AKA MAS), a 


minimally-disruptive surgical platform, which includes its software-driven nerve detection 


and avoidance systems, NVM5, and intraoperative monitoring (IOM) services and support; 


MaXcess, an integrated split-blade retractor system; and various specialized implants and 


biologics.  


Its spine surgery product line offerings comprise products for the thoracolumbar and the 


cervical spine, which are primarily used to enable surgeons to have access to the spine and to 


perform restorative and fusion procedures in a minimally-disruptive fashion. Its biologics 


products include Osteocel Plus and Pro, a cellular bone matrix; Formagraft, a collagen-based 


synthetic bone substitute; AttraX, a synthetic bone graft material; and Propel DBM, a 


moldable demineralized bone matrix putty, which are used for spinal fusion or bone healing 


process. The company’s IOM services are used for onsite and remote monitoring of the 


neurological systems of patients undergoing spinal and brain-related surgeries. It also 


provides implants; and fixation products, including pedicle screws, rods, and plates. In 


addition, the company offers Integrated Global Alignment platform for assessing, preserving, 


and restoring spinal alignment; MAGEC-early onset scoliosis, a spinal bracing and distraction 


system; and PRECICE, a limb lengthening system.  


NuVasive, Inc. sells its products to hospitals, surgeons, and other customers through 


independent sales agents, directly-employed sales personnel, and distributors in the United 


States and internationally. The company was founded in 1997 and is headquartered in San 


Diego, California.
5 | P a g e  
 


NUVA’s Growth by Acquisition Strategy Could be its Downfall 


With a change of the guard in mid-2015 when newly appointed CEO Greg Lucier took over 


from the previously ousted CEO Alex Lukianov (more on this later), NuVasive turned into a 


high growth by acquisition firm with its sights set on a $1 billion revenue goal. Both the 


ousted CEO and new CEO have mentioned this goal over 30 times throughout the years on 


earnings/analyst calls dating back to 2012. The only difference is that it appears Mr. Lucier 


plans to get there with a growth by acquisition strategy instead of organically. To illustrate 


this, we find the following as a newly added excerpt in NUVA’s 10-K filing, “We expect to 


continue to pursue business and technology acquisition targets and strategic partnerships.”  





So we would like to point out step by step why we believe NuVasive’s management is 


infatuated with buying companies left and right and how it impacts the firm overall: 





1) The acquiring of new companies inorganically boosts NUVA’s sales in order to hit 


their arbitrary $1 billion revenue goal set back in 2012. 





2) Management has an added incentive to increase sales and non-GAAP operating 


earnings, as discussed later, to hit performance goals and thus added bonuses. 





3) The use of purchasing assets through acquisitions allows management to tout a 


reported adjusted EBITDA figure that does not take into account cash spent on 


acquisitions and that can be gamed.  





Restructuring is a company’s way of ridding itself of 


certain unprofitable subsidiaries it should never have 


acquired in the first place. The earlier buying of these ill-


fated subsidiaries, also warmly applauded [by Wall 


Street] is called diversification. I call it di-worseification. 


-Peter Lynch
6 | P a g e  
 


4) This allows management to exclude amortization expenses (where real cash was 


spent during the acquisition) from non-GAAP earnings because they are 


incorrectly deemed as “non-cash”. 





5) Management is then able to exclude unquestionably recurring “business transition 


costs” from non-GAAP earnings because management considers them to be “non-


recurring” in nature, even though they have been used in 18 consecutive periods. 





6) This allows management to hide actual normal operating expenses into the 


“business transition charges” on the income statement, where NUVA’s footnotes 


corroborate this very thesis. Hiding in plain sight! 





7) Management’s convoluted disclosures regarding organic revenue appears to be a 


way to obfuscate true consolidated organic growth figures. For instance, organic 


growth is not reported in its earnings press release similar to other companies, 


rather it is given sporadically throughout different earnings calls.  





Overall, who cares if management can hit an arbitrary revenue goal of $1 billion if all they 


had to do is acquire at will to get there. Did they accomplish anything? What appears to 


have been a decelerating revenue company back in 2015 has now surged back to life of the 


backs of a new CEO on a spending spree. But are these numbers sustainable?  








0.0%


5.0%


10.0%


15.0%


20.0%


25.0%


30.0%


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


Q 1  
2 0 1 5


Q 4  
2 0 1 4


REVENUE YOY TRENDS


Ellipse Acquisition 


BNN Acquisition 


LessRay Acquisition
7 | P a g e  
 


Ellipse Acquisition Not Going as Planned Despite Management Reports 


• When the acquisition of Ellipse was announced on 01/05/16, CEO Greg Lucier praised 


the purchase based on their strong revenue trends. Verbatim, he stated, “Ellipse ended 


2015 strong with approximately $44 million in revenue or nearly 70% YOY growth. 


This team remains committed to delivering approximately $60 million on pro forma 


basis revenue in 2016 (representing 36% YOY growth).” 





• On the Q4 Earnings Call, former CFO Quentin Blackford discussed Ellipse (AKA NSO) 


with the following, “While the type of purchase order we saw in Q4 may not repeat in 


the future, the underlying revenue performance for NSO, excluding this transaction, 


was in line with our expectations. The business continues to grow in excess of 30% and 


will continue to contribute to the accelerated growth profile of the overall company for 


years to come.” 





• The purchase order at question described above comes from a $4.8 million purchase for 


MAGEC rods (within the NSO division) that came in from a “charitable donation” as 


described on the earnings call. However, this transaction leads to being borderline not 


arms-length, as it was made by certain former stockholders of Ellipse Technologies with 


the intent to donate them. So why would they do this? Out of the goodness of their 


heart? Doubtful, apparently the $30 million revenue milestone payment to Ellipse 


shareholders was not going to be reached unless a magical $4.8 million sale came out of 


nowhere, and it did.  





• So if the acquisition was going as planned, why would the division need an injection of 


$4.8 million in sales in order to hit a milestone revenue goal that was expected to hit? 


And assuming a run-rate of $60 million estimate for the year, this amount is highly 


substantial as it equates to over 33% of the division sales for the quarter. Based on our 


organic revenue section detailed below, we believe Ellipse/NSO’s growth has mostly 


stagnated at approximately $15 million in sales per quarter.  





• To add injury to insult, we believe this division’s total goodwill amount may be at risk 


for impairment. Especially in light of a new CFO coming in that appears to be highly 


conservative. From the acquisition, NUVA brought on $241.9 million in goodwill on the 


balance sheet, or 63.7% of the total consideration paid. Looking at NUVA’s closest 


peers, we find that the average goodwill spent equaled 44.2% relative to total
8 | P a g e  
 


consideration paid.1 Moreover the 63.7% goodwill-to-paid ratio was the highest of all 


peers acquisitions in 2016. Because of the lofty price paid for Ellipse well over what 


peers were paying, we see a more likely than not chance of material impairments in the 


future.  





Organic Growth Figures on the Decline 


• After analyzing NUVA’s proforma and self-calculated organic revenue figures, we 


believe that not only is the firm’s highly touted Ellipse acquisition suffering, but the 


core business is faltering as well. 





• Let us start by diving into NUVA’s terrible disclosure practices that either point to 


negligence or tomfoolery as their disclosure regarding organic revenue are nowhere near 


consistent as GAAP accounting would imply. Here is everything that is wrong with 


NUVA’s disclosure practices that appear to try and obfuscate organic revenue trends: 





1) The firm does not clearly state organic revenue growth percentages or absolute 


numbers front and center in its earnings release as many other reputable 


companies do. Especially, for the highly material Ellipse acquisition, revenue from 


this division (NSO) should have been broken out each quarter. 





2) On the earnings calls, management does provide “core” growth figures that 


exclude NSO and BNN, but not other “not material” acquisitions, for only three 


periods in FY2016. They stop disclosing this figure starting in Q1 2017 on the 


earnings call, even though BNN has not annualized until 07/01/17.  





3) NUVA does break out revenue growth from acquisitions in its quarterly filings, 


however the consistency is lacking here as well. First, they only break out the 


acquisition growth by segment (Spinal Hardware and Surgical Support) instead of 


just stating which division (NSO/BNN) produced $X amount of growth or 


revenue. Then they decide to stop giving quarterly figures and instead switch to 


full-year and 6M figures, without disclosing the 3M figures as they previously did.  





                                                           
1 Acquisitions used in our calculations were JNJ (Vouge), MDT (HeartWare, Smith&Nephew), SYK (Sage, Physio), GMED 
(Alphatec), ZBH (Bioment, LDR).
9 | P a g e  
 


4) With the $98 million acquisition of Biotronic Neuronetwork (BNN) on 07/01/16, 


the firm provided no disclosures what-so-ever regarding revenue/earnings 


estimates or balance sheet/goodwill data. The reason being is that they consider 


this acquisition to be not material to the firm’s financials. However, in the same 


press release, NUVA states, “NuVasive expects the transaction to be immediately 


accretive to NuVasive’s EPS in 2016 and significantly accretive in 2017 and 


beyond.” Unbelievable. 





5) Even in the firm’s filings we see that the firm is engaged in acquiring more and 


more companies, but yet we as analysts/investors continue to receive no 


disclosures on them due to their management imposed materiality threshold. 


According to the filings, management states:  





The Company has completed other acquisitions that were not considered material 


to the overall Consolidated Financial Statements during the year ended December 


31, 2016. These acquisitions have been included in the Consolidated Financial 


Statements from the respective dates of acquisition. The Company does not believe 


that collectively the acquisitions made during the year, excluding NSO, are material 


to the overall financial statements.”  





6) Recently as of 09/07/17, we find that NuVasive purchased yet another company, 


Vertera Spine, with literally no financial information given what-so-ever, not even 


a purchase price. 





• Where we are going with this is that we believe many of these smaller not disclosed 


acquisitions are actually driving most of NuVasive’s revenue growth in recent periods. 


Now that Ellipse has annualized, we believe that most the growth is coming from BNN 


and other smaller acquisitions, while the core business is suffering. And of course, 


management provides no details regarding BNN or LessRay and how accretive they 


will be to sales/earnings.  





• In the three quarters management disclosed its “core” growth numbers (although they 


describe this as only excluding Ellipse on BNN revenue, not the other acquisitions), 


they disclosed figures of 9.0%, 5.0%, and 9.0% in Q2, Q3, and Q4 2016, respectively. 


Based on these figures and our own calculations, we believe that BNN and other 


acquisitions are actually driving most of the total revenue growth while NSO has 


stagnated revenue of approximately $15 million per period.
10 | P a g e  
 


• With NSO fully annualizing in Q2 2017, we would expect a bump up in “core” growth 


as this is supposed to be NUVA’s high flyer as it was in the past. However, we calculate 


our own core growth at 5.1% for the H1 2017 (due to the aforementioned limited 


disclosures we could not calculate quarterly figures). And as stated earlier management 


has not provided core growth figures, even though BNN has not yet annualized from its 


acquisition date.  





• Based off this data that shows decelerating revenue trends in both the consolidated 


business and core numbers, we believe that management will continue to try and 


acquire its growth even at the detriment of the core business.
11 | P a g e  
 


Margin Divergence from Peers Suggest Earnings Management 


When analyzing NuVasive’s income statement and margins, we note large divergences from 


the peer median2 that we believe could be attributable to accounting shenanigans. To 


illustrate these nefarious trends, we will go through each of the following expense line-items 


one by one: Gross margin, R&D margin, and SG&A margin.  


Gross margin bifurcation over the past two years could suggest relaxed inventory accounting:  


• Reviewing the firm’s gross margin trends, we find that dating back to 2015 we find the 


NUVA and its peers reported a similar gross margin at 72.5% and 71.9%, respectively 


as of Q2 2015. Since this timespan, we find that these numbers deviated in that 


NUVA’s percentage continued to increase while the peer group decreased.  





• Later in our report, the reader will come to find that we believe NUVA’s bloated 


inventory balance is a result of 1) under-accruing its markdowns of its highly 


technological changing products and/or 2) defending its ASP of its products at the cost 


of decelerating sales.  





• While we believe management can boost gross margins cosmetically for a short period 


of time, overall we believe that NUVA’s margins will end up in-line with the peer group 


average and in fact it will reverse to a much lower value in future periods.  








                                                           
2 Peer group consists of JNJ, MDT, GMED, ZBH, KTWO, SYK, and OFIX.  


65.0%


67.0%


69.0%


71.0%


73.0%


75.0%


77.0%


79.0%


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


GROSS MARGIN TRENDS


NUVA Peer Average Peer Median
12 | P a g e  
 


Research and Development costs plummet after NUVA goes on a spending spree acquiring: 





• Moving on to what we believe is one of the most nefarious items on NUVA’s income 


statement stem from the firm’s (or lack thereof) R&D expenses. Dating back to 2010, 


we find that NUVA spent a total amount on R&D that was in-line with its peer group 


average near 10% margin. However, as NUVA became more and more acquisitive and 


basically “purchased” its R&D, this percentage went into freefall. Here is where at first 


this type of R&D strategy appeared harmless at Valeant, however it ended up being one of 


their main downfalls once acquiring companies ceased due to investor pressure.  





• As the sell-side analysts were blind to Valeant’s inflated margins, we believe here that 


NUVA has figured out the same gameplan by buying its R&D. As the firm, continued 


to buy more companies, its R&D fell to a near five-year low recently at 4.8% of total 


sales. This contrasts greatly with its peer group average of 7.6% reported last period.  





• Overall, this “accounting gimmick”, which allows management to circumvent 


heightened R&D expenses, nefariously motivates management to go on a spending 


spree acquiring companies whether they will be good acquisitions or not. To add insult 


to injury, managers have figured out to exclude the amortization expense from non-


GAAP earnings with sell-side analysts none-the-wiser (as we will discuss later). 








The mistake the bulls continue to make here is they add 


back the amortization of companies like Valeant and 


Endo and others who have bought drugs and not 


developed them. And if Merck and Pfizer and others 


were able to not count their R&D expense, right, 


capitalize it, they too would look cheap. It’s just a simple 


matter of accounting. 


– notable short-seller Jim Chanos
13 | P a g e  
 











SG&A margins do not correspond with management statements about expanding workforce:  


• Focusing in on the firm’s selling, general and administrative expenses, GHR observes 


that NUVA spends an extreme amount on its SG&A costs; well above its competitors in 


the space. Illustrating this trend, we find that NUVA’s SG&A margin currently stands 


at 53.4% in the latest quarter. This was the highest among its peer group where the 


peer group average SG&A margin was only 36.9%; representing a 1,609 bps difference.  





• The higher amount being spend on its workforce appears to contrast from 


management’s recent statements in its 10-K under its strategy excerpt: 


Expand the Reach of Our Exclusive Sales Force. We believe having a sales force dedicated to 


selling only our products is critical to achieving continued growth across our various product 


lines, driving greater market penetration and increasing our revenues. 


• Additionally, we found in the most recent 10-K that the company now has a majority 


of directly-employed sales representatives rather than an approximately 50/50 split 


with independent sales agents as in previous years. This can be found under the “Sales 


and Marketing” excerpt under the “Strategy” section.  





3.0%


4.0%


5.0%


6.0%


7.0%


8.0%


9.0%


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


R&D TRENDS


NUVA Peer Average Peer Median
14 | P a g e  
 


• Overall, we believe that NUVA management is overspending on its sales force in order 


to supplement revenue growth in the recent years. We view this type of revenue growth 


strategy as unsustainable in the long-term, especially when judged against its peers. 















































25.0%


30.0%


35.0%


40.0%


45.0%


50.0%


55.0%


60.0%


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


SG&A MARGIN TRENDS 


NUVA Peer Average Peer Median
15 | P a g e  
 


Cash Flow Metrics Plunge, Pushing Accruals to New Highs 


Not surprisingly, when viewing NUVA’s performance figures based on non-GAAP, GAAP 


and free-cash-flow figures, we come to find wildly different figures that suggest the firm is 


not as profitable as it would like you to believe. In fact, we calculate that over the last five 


years, the cumulative amount of free-cash-flow (including acquisitions) comes to an 


astonishing loss of $277.9 million (see Chart on the next page). This contrasts greatly with 


management’s touted non-GAAP earnings profit figure of $314.0 million. Even when 


excluding NUVA’s largest acquisition of Ellipse Technologies in 2016 where the firm paid 


$380 million in total consideration, the firm’s adjusted free-cash-flow figure still remained 


negative in FY2016 at –$20.5 million. 


But just focusing in on GAAP and adjusted FCF figures, we at GlassHouse like to quantify 


the divergence between income and cash flow metrics by looking at total and operating 


accruals figures.3 Any percentage that totals above 10% lead us to believe there is a 


heightened chance management may be taking liberties with its accounting. For NUVA, at 


the end of FY2016, we calculate their total and operating accruals to stand at 31.9% and 


8.3%, respectively; both extremely heightened figures relative to historical norms. In the, 


end these metrics portend heightened reported earnings for NUVA, but not much cash (in 


this case negative adjusted FCF) to back it up. Our dedicated readers will come to find in the 


rest of our report what the primary drivers are behind this bifurcation between earnings and 


cash flow metrics.  


Back before Valeant’s crash in 2015, many analysts proclaimed that the company was doing 


great based on their cash-from-operating-activities and free-cash-flow figures. However, as 


investors would soon find out, this was all a farce as the firm circumvented these figures by using 


acquisitions at an alarming rate. We see that same situation, if not worse, brewing at NUVA.  





                                                           
3 Total accruals defined as net income – adjusted free-cash-flow (then divided by total assets). Operating accruals defined as 
EBITDAS – CFOA (then divided by current assets).
16 | P a g e  
 


























 $(300.0)


 $(200.0)


 $(100.0)


 $-


 $100.0


 $200.0


 $300.0


 $400.0


Non-GAAP Net Income GAAP Net Income Adjusted Free-Cash-
Flow


$314.0 


$97.8 


$(277.9)


Cumulative Five-Year Earnings


 $(500.0)


 $(400.0)


 $(300.0)


 $(200.0)


 $(100.0)


 $-


 $100.0


 $200.0


Q2 2017201620152014201320122011


Annual Performance Earnings


Non-GAAP Net Income GAAP Net Income Adjusted Free-Cash-Flow
17 | P a g e  
 


Evidence of Channel Stuffing at NUVA 


A material portion of NUVA’s salient accruals is driven by their bloated inventory balance 


which is gathering dust on the balance sheet. Overall, our analysts here at GHR have found 


several earnings quality figures that point to NUVA reps stuffing its doctor clients with 


unwanted inventory to boost its sales. Similar to the case with EFII, where we accurately 


called its errors in revenue recognition policy, here we believe that NUVA has been actively 


trying to ram down its inventory onto its client base in order to artificially increase sales. 


GHR is able to come to this conclusion by analyzing certain inventory diagnostics of NUVA. 


This combined with a salient rise in accounts receivable (discussed next) leaves our analysts 


no doubt that channel stuffing has occurred based on our long-tenured experience searching 


for accounting fraud. 


As our analysts have come to find out, channel stuffing and bloated inventory on the balance 


sheet can only be a farce for so long. As NUVA’s highly depreciating inventory is forced off 


the balance sheet, the company is left with two bleak options 1) rapid markdowns of its 


products, which will significantly impact margins and/or 2) the firm will need to write-off its 


obsolete inventory at a total loss. And based on our experience and the ballooned level of 


inventory on hand and in the channel, we believe this puts a time catalyst within one-to-


three quarters of a substantial share price decline for NUVA.  


Let’s take a look how NUVA describes its own inventory in terms of obsolescence in its 2016 


Annual Report: 


Excess and Obsolete Inventory 


We provide an inventory reserve for estimated obsolescence and excess inventory based upon 


historical turnover and assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. Our 


allograft products have shelf lives ranging from two to five years and are subject to demand 


fluctuations based on the availability and demand for alternative products. Our inventory, which 


consists primarily of disposables and specialized implants, is at risk of obsolescence following the 


introduction and development of new or enhanced products. Our estimates and assumptions for excess 


and obsolete inventory are reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. The estimates we use for demand 


are also used for near-term capacity planning and inventory purchasing and are consistent with our 


revenue forecasts. Increases in the reserve for excess and obsolete inventory result in a corresponding 


charge to cost of goods sold.  Historically our reserves have been adequate to cover losses. 


A stated goal of our business is to focus on continual product innovation and to obsolete our 


own products. While we believe this provides a competitive edge, it also results in the risk that our 


products and related capital instruments will become obsolete prior to sale or to the end of their 


anticipated useful lives. [emphasis added] 





As the reader can see, NUVA does not apologize for the rapid rate that it obsoletes its own 


products in order to stay above the technological curve. And with the rapid rise of the
18 | P a g e  
 


inventory on the balance sheet, management may not have been as cavalier with write-offs 


of its products in recent periods. The numbers don’t lie.  


• Below we can see that NUVA’s DSI values have been on a consistent rise dating back 


to FY2013. At that time, 12M DSI stood at 284 days and has continued to rise in a 


stair-step fashion to the 311 day balance it stands at currently. And while the overall 


balance was slightly greater in in FY2016, we note that the Ellipse Technologies 


acquisition did bring on $22.5 million in extra inventory as of 02/11/16. Thus, even as 


NUVA has had time to work through this added inventory over the last year and a half 


with Ellipse now fully integrated, its overall DSI values remain highly elevated.  





• Looking at inventory relative to sales, we find that the current value of 90.9% has risen 


542 bps YOY and stands at a five-year seasonal high. The 90.9% percentage is a value 


not seen since dating back to Q2 2009!  





• Further corroborating our hypothesis, our analysts looked at NUVA’s inventory 


relative to forward sales in order to guard against heightened future demand. Here we 


calculated that inventory was 91.6% and 42.5% of 3M and 6M forward sales, 


respectively. These figures are at their respective five-year high for NUVA. In laymen’s 


terms, if the dominator (future sales) was expected to be much larger, then this ratio 


would be more in-line with historical norms for the company. However, this is not the 


case, in fact, it’s the opposite meaning there is no heightened future demand for 


NUVA’s products. 





• Finally, another “tell” that points to management’s comments being disingenuous is 


the accounts payable-to-inventory ratio being at a five-year low for Q2s at 35.0%. This 


tells us that management has been actually decreasing its inventory purchases over the 


last year, but inventory continues to build due to decreased sales. Again, these 


accounting metrics point to GHR’s own channel-stuffing hypothesis rather than 


management’s explanations as discussed below. 





• Lastly, one of the biggest tells we have found is that out of nowhere NUVA decided to 


remove its inventory reserve disclosure in its 10-K filing as of FY2016. A reserve as 


highly material as this makes no sense as to why it was removed unless NuVasive has 


something to hide. This reserve has been disclosed going back over 10 years for NUVA 


and suddenly it was removed. The balance of this reserve at the end of FY2015 was 


$28.5 million, a value that comprised up of 16.9% of total inventory; highly material, a
19 | P a g e  
 


material girl in a material world. What we do find at the end of FY2015 is the firm’s 


write-downs and additions increasing rapidly over the past five years, something our 


analysts have not seen to this magnitude in very many other companies. There is a very 


good chance that this reserve has grown even higher in FY2016, but the fact is the lack 


of – or actual removal of –  this disclosure is very telling.  














• So what’s happening with NUVA’s inventory? What does management have to say 


about this growing problem? Well, dating back to FY2015 10K, we find that inventory 


is briefly discussed in the COGS section as the following:  


This decrease in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue, which resulted in higher gross 


margin, was primarily due to an approximate 2% decrease in cost or reserve requirements due 


to inventory efficiencies and margin improvements gained from the acquisition of the spine 


implant manufacturer ANC, LLC in May 2013 (now named “NuVasive Manufacturing 


Limited”) and overall operational efficiencies realized during 2014 including increased 


medical billing collections and volume in monitoring services. 


• However, since that time (FY2015), management has been fairly radio silent with 


regard to its consistent rise. The company did however add this bullet point into its 


Earnings Presentation on 07/26/16:  


250


270


290


310


330


350


370


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


Q 1  
2 0 1 5


Q 4  
2 0 1 4


Q 3  
2 0 1 4


Q 2  
2 0 1 4


Q 1  
2 0 1 4


Q 4  
2 0 1 3


NUVA DSI TRENDS


3M DSI 12M DSI
20 | P a g e  
 











• The excerpt of the “significantly reducing inventory days on hand” was disclosed at a 


time when 12M DSI stood at 317 days. As discussed above, the current balance of 311 


days is still significantly outside NUVA’s historical norms, however management 


decided to remove this excerpt as of its last accounting period!  





• The inefficiencies regarding NUVA’s inventory balance was finally discussed on the 


latest Q2 Earnings Call with the former CFO Quentin Blackford stating the following: 





Non-GAAP gross margin for the second quarter was 74.5%, down 330 
basis points from the prior year. The lower gross margin profile of the 
Biotronic business that we acquired in July of last year had a 280-basis-
point impact to our year-over-year decline. Within that 280-basis-point 
headwind was roughly 50 basis points of pressure created by the 
temporary billing and collections backlog mentioned before. There was 
also a 30-basis-point headwind related to inventory inefficiencies as we 
transfer production from our Fairborn facility into West Carrollton. 
 
As we continue to work through that transition, we anticipate that these
21 | P a g e  
 


headwinds will turn to tailwinds in the third and fourth quarters. Pricing 
pressure continues to be consistent from past quarters, remaining in the 
low-single digits at negative 1.9%. 





• While management appears to be blaming its “inventory inefficiencies” on its transfer 


production to its West Carrollton facility, we believe this may be a red herring where 


slow-moving and obsolete inventory is the real obstruction for the firm based on our 


prior calculations.  








Receivables Spike on the Balance Sheet as Management Curiously Points to “Delayed Billing” 


One of the most telling red flags our analysts find at GHR relate to anomalous trends not 


only inventory balances, but accounts receivable as well. Another well-known trick managers 


play on analysts when DSOs are rising is to point to ERP implementation (or worse in 


NUVA’s case) to its “NuVasive Clinical Services billing and collections backlog.” While this 


may very well be the case, more times than not, when we find companies with a plethora of 


earnings quality concerns such as NUVA, we need to be highly skeptical as we were with a 


previous report for a company that ended up with accounting issues:  Electronics for 


Imaging.   


Unfortunately, NUVA management has been fairly tight-lipped when discussing accounts 


receivable (AR) and the deriving days-sales-outstanding (DSO) trends. Prior to the current 


quarter, management did not discuss DSOs on its conference calls dating back to the Q4 2014 


call. On this call, former CFO Quentin Blackford discussed the normalized level of DSOs at 


that time: 





With regard to AR, what you're seeing play through there is, in total, we've got 


a DSO of about 52 days on average. However, as the mix of the business continues 


to migrate towards international and that becomes a bigger component of our 


overall business, the payment terms in that international business are much 


longer. So you're going to naturally see AR probably growing a bit faster than 


what you do the revenue dollars. And that's just the nature of us continuing to 


expand into a global company that we are.
22 | P a g e  
 


While we are in 100% agreement with the former CFO about the rising DSO values 


subsequent to 2014, one thing our analyst do not agree on is that it is fully attributable to 


the rise in international sales relative to total sales. In fact, when we review the mix of 


domestic and international sales since this statement was made, we find the mix to be highly 


similar to the prior years (see Chart below). Specifically, international sales stood at 13.1% 


relative to total sales in Q4 2014 when this statement was made. And as of the current period 


international sales was only up slightly to 16.7%; representing only a 360 bps change over a 


10 period (2.5 years) timeframe. So yes, while a small percentage of the recent DSO value 


increase may be attributable to international sales, we believe something more nefarious may 


be driving this metric higher as discussed below. 











• Turning to the specific outsized AR metrics at hand, we note that NUVA’s DSO levels 


have reached new five-year highs at 63 days and 59 days, respectively.4 The increase of 


these metrics have been on a persistent rise going back to Q4 2013, and then with a 


major spike occurring in the LTM (see Chart below on Page 24).  





                                                           
4 Our lower DSO values differ from management’s stated 66 days DSO value due to our analysts using the average AR balance 
instead of ending.   


0.0%


10.0%


20.0%


30.0%


40.0%


50.0%


60.0%


70.0%


80.0%


90.0%


100.0%


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


Q 1  
2 0 1 5


Q 4  
2 0 1 4


NUVA U.S. VS INTERNATIONAL SALES


US Revenue % International Revenue %
23 | P a g e  
 


• Further diagnostics show that AR-to-3M-sales increased by 1,290 bps YOY to 73.0%; 


representing a five-year high. This metric also stands well above the five-year seasonal 


average of 61.6%.  





• As discussed earlier, management foreshadowed the rise being attributable to the 


expected rise in international sales, which we believe may not be entirely true. And 


even if NUVA believed that international sales would lead to longer collection times, 


GHR points out that this could also lead to amplified write-offs from riskier clients.  





• Finally in the latest quarter, management discussed the recent spike in DSO metrics 


with former CFO Quentin Blackford stating: 


However, we also realized the impact of some integration challenges in the 


quarter as we relocated our billing and collection functions from Ann Arbor to 


Baltimore over the course of the first half of the year. As a result of the transition, 


we've seen our timeliness of billing and collections be pushed by roughly 1 


month, which we anticipate impacted revenues by approximately $1 million in the 


quarter. These challenges are entirely within our control and are being managed 


appropriately with increased attention and resources to work through the 


processing backlog as a result of the transition. 


The delayed billing has also increased our DSO, which was at 66 days for the 


quarter. The increase in DSO over the prior quarter of approximately 4 days is 


almost entirely attributable to the NCS billing and collections backlog. In addition, 


the strength of our International business, which has a longer collection cycle on 


average, has created mix pressure on our DSOs and has been partially mitigated 


by solid collections on the U.S. hardware side. 


• While Mr. Blackford again doubled-down on his international sales statement, we find 


the rationale that the DSO increase stemmed from “relocating billing and collection” 


from one city to another and also based on its NuVasive Clinical Services (NCS) billing 


is implausible.  





• Background on the NCS division:  this was created in July 2016, when BNN Holdings 


Corp. (owns and operates Biotronic NeuroNetwork) was acquired. Following the 


acquisition NUVA combined the service offerings of the BNN with its existing Impulse 


Monitoring business under the newly created division NuVasive Clinical Services, or 


NCS.
24 | P a g e  
 





• In the BNN acquisition press release, we find that BNN previously reported 


approximately $50 million in sales in 2015. Also, that this acquisition would “double 


NuVasive’s service footprint.” Therefore, estimating that the NCS division had 


approximately $100 million in sales in 2015 and adjusting for the recent total revenue 


growth, we can approximate that NCS revenue was near $120 million in the latest 


TTM. Overall, this only accounts for 11.8% of consolidated TTM sales, which we 


believe is not enough to move the needle with the recent spike of DSO metrics.  





• So what do we believe is actually going on here? Concurrent with the recent spike in 


inventory metrics, we believe that NUVA is currently stuffing its channel with products 


and therefore getting pushback from its clients on payment. As we have seen time and 


time again, we believe management has pulled revenue from future periods in order to 


hit short-term performance goals as discussed in the section later on.  





• Based on our overall assessment of NUVA, we believe at a time of decelerating organic 


sales that management is turning to every accounting gimmick possible to boost sales 


figures. So whether the rise in AR/DSOs is either attributable to 1) the pulling of 


revenue forward from future quarters and/or 2) collection issues, we see NUVA having a 


rude awakening in future periods as these highly unfavorable accounting trends uncoil. 





45


47


49


51


53


55


57


59


61


63


65


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


Q 1  
2 0 1 5


Q 4  
2 0 1 4


Q 3  
2 0 1 4


Q 2  
2 0 1 4


Q 1  
2 0 1 4


Q 4  
2 0 1 3


NUVA DSO TRENDS


3M DSO 12M DSO
25 | P a g e  
 


Accrued Liabilities Fall to Abnormally Low Levels; Warranty Reserve not Disclosed  


Further leading NUVA down into the Balance Sheet abyss, GHR analyzed the firm’s 


“Accounts payable and accrued liabilities” line item and its current unfavorable trends. Why 


do we care about “accrued liabilities”? Well, the almost always overlooked balance sheet 


item can be used by savvy CFOs to defer a material amount of expenses on the income 


statement. Specifically, one tactic a manager can use is to lower its warranty expense relative 


to historical norms and thereby aesthetically enhance margins for the time being. Although 


managers can use this accounting gimmick to enhance earnings for a short period of time, 


this trend must always reverse in future periods.  





Digging into NUVA’s 2016 10-K footnotes, we find the following sub-line items: 








• While we are mostly concerned with the “accrued expenses” and “others” sub-line 


items, unfortunately we cannot strip these balances out of the quarterly figures as they 


are not disclosed. Therefore, our calculations will include the total balance of $77.6 


million as of 12/31/16.  





• Currently NUVA’s accrued liabilities stand at an absolute value of $82.9 million. 


Relative to total 3M sales, this value only stands at 31.8%, representing a 1,084 bps 


YOY decline. The current value of 31.8% also stands 927 bps below the five-year 


seasonal average of 41.1%. What this tells us is that NUVA is not expensing its usual 


amount on the income statement when using sales as a baseline. On a 12M basis, this 


ratio stands only at 8.1%, representing a 350 bps YOY decline from the prior year. 





• Quantifying this impact on earnings, we used last year’s 11.6% ratio as our baseline 


(also near the five-year average) in calculating the expected Accrued and Other 


Liabilities line-item. Here, our analysts calculate that we would expect this account to
26 | P a g e  
 


have a normalized balance of $118.7 million as of 06/30/17, not the reported $82.9 


million. This difference nets an after-tax difference of $19.8 million, or in EPS terms, a 39 


cent cosmetic benefit to the bottom line. This simple account that no sell-side analysts look at 


or understand has benefited EPS (non-GAAP EPS) by an astonishing 62.9% (22.0%) 


over the TTM!  








• Finally, we question why management would not disclose any of its warranty reserve 


balances similar to peers in the space. We see within the Risk Factors section of the 10K 


that NUVA deems this account to be material. NUVA uses the following disclosure in 


its Annual Report: 





We bear the risk of express and implied warranty claims on products we supply, including 


equipment and component parts manufactured by third parties. We may not be 


successful in claiming recovery under any warranty or indemnity provided to us by our 


suppliers or vendors in the event of a successful warranty claim against us by a customer 


or that any recovery from such vendor or supplier would be adequate. In addition, 


warranty claims brought by our customers related to third-party components may arise 


after our ability to bring corresponding warranty claims against such suppliers expire, 


which could result in additional costs to us. There is a risk that warranty claims made 


against us will exceed our warranty reserve and our business, financial condition and 


results of operations could be harmed. 





0.0%


10.0%


20.0%


30.0%


40.0%


50.0%


60.0%


70.0%


Q 2  
2 0 1 7


Q 1  
2 0 1 7


Q 4  
2 0 1 6


Q 3  
2 0 1 6


Q 2  
2 0 1 6


Q 1  
2 0 1 6


Q 4  
2 0 1 5


Q 3  
2 0 1 5


Q 2  
2 0 1 5


Q 1  
2 0 1 5


Q 4  
2 0 1 4


ACCRUED EXPENSES-TO-3M SALES
27 | P a g e  
 


• Relating to the aforementioned point about delaying current expenses, our analysts 


would like to review the balance of this account relative to historical norms. Without 


this disclosure, this is impossible to analyze and find it peculiar that it is not disclosed in 


NUVA’s 10-K like so many of its peers. 





Amortization of Capitalized Software Deviates from Norm 





• According to NUVA’s 10-K, the firm capitalizes internal-use software costs that include 


direct costs associated with the actual development or acquisition of computer software 


for internal use, including costs associated with the design, coding, installation, and 


testing of the system.  





• As shown the table below, the firm’s balance of capitalized software has spiked up 


37.5% in 2016. However, we note that the amortization expense associated with these 


capitalized assets have not followed suit. In fact, the amount of amortization expense 


reported in the year was fairly flat only increasing 1.4%. 





• We would expect overall that the expense should follow the amount of associated assets 


on the balance sheet. The divergence of these two items could suggest that management 


is not expensing enough of these assets and thus these capitalized expenses are now 


built into the balance sheet. Using a baseline ratio from the prior year, we estimate that 


the proper amount of amortization expense should have been closer to $10.0 million as 


opposed to the reported $7.4 million figure in 2016. 





Fiscal Year  


#s in millions 


2016 2015 2014 


Capitalized Software $24.2 $17.6 $17.3 


Associated Amortization $7.4 $7.3 $7.7 


Amortization / Software 30.6% 41.5% 44.5% 


YOY    


Capitalized Software (%) 37.5% 1.7% -12.2% 


Associated Amortization (%) 1.4% -5.2% 40.0% 


Amortization / Software (bps) -1,090 -303 1,659
28 | P a g e  
 


Non-GAAP Exclusions Obfuscate NuVasive’s True Economic Earnings 





As evident by reviewing our previous Annual Earnings Chart (page 16), we believe that 


NUVA has a significant cash flow problem that will continue to hinder the firm as they 


acquire more companies (recently acquiring a new company, Vertera Inc., as of 09/07/17). 


Our readers can see below how former CFO Quentin Blackford will try and steer analysts to 


their suggested cash flow metric of “Adjusted EBITDA margin”.  





Second quarter adjusted EBITDA margin, which excludes the impact of noncash 


stock-based compensation, was 26.2%, a meaningful increase of 90 basis points 


compared to 25.3% in the same period last year, reflecting the continued focus 


on improving the cash earnings profile of the business. 





Again, we point out to our savvy readers how easy it is to game the “adjusted EBITDA” 


metric, especially at a time when a firm is as acquisitive as NUVA has been. All the firm’s 


R&D can just be spent on acquiring new companies which circumvents this metric (which we 


have alluded to previously). And the “adjusted” part give the subjectivity of management to 


exclude any expenses that they deem to be too averse to margins/earnings.  





Non-GAAP earnings will without a doubt play a part in 


the next financial crisis. Sell-side analysts take in the 


management reported numbers as gospel without 


question. On a macro level, we erroneously judge the 


overall valuation of the market on non-GAAP 


earnings, but at the end of the day, you can’t pay your 


bills with non-GAAP earnings.
29 | P a g e  
 








When analyzing a firm’s Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, we as investors need to play 


close attention to the acquisition cash line items shown above. When we analyze a firm as 


acquisitive as NUVA is, normal financial cash flow metrics such as cash from operating 


activities, free-cash-flow, and EBITDA are absolutely meaningless as they are all 


circumvented!  


Let’s go through one-by-one and debunk every reason why NUVA’s current non-GAAP 


exclusions have no business being excluded from income. Below is an excerpt that shows 


Come see this one LIFE-HACK that CFO’s use to 


circumvent normal cash-flow metrics and make 


cash look amazing!  





Sell-side analysts HATE him!
30 | P a g e  
 


NUVA’s non-GAAP exclusions for Q2 2017 and what do you know? Magically, $0.44 of EPS 


is translated to $0.84 of EPS, nearly doubling our earnings instantly! 











Exacerbating and obfuscating true economic income at NUVA, let’s throw out more 


meaningless earnings metrics from management with our favorite “adjusted EBITDA” 


metric! As if just plain old EBITDA wasn’t enough, now we can remove more expenses that 


we feel would make our earnings look far worse than we would like. The crazy thing here is 


that, with regards to the “business transition costs” and stock-based compensation excluded 


below, both these numbers are entirely up to the discretion of management as to the total 


amount. Want to hit earnings this quarter? Well, instead of paying cash out, let’s give more 


in SBC and just exclude it from non-GAAP! Normal expenses too high? Let’s just move some 


down into “business transition costs” as a one-time item! Voila!
31 | P a g e  
 



































I think that, every time you see the word EBITDA, 


you should substitute the word ‘bullshit’ earnings. 





-Charlie Munger
32 | P a g e  
 


GAAP vs. non-GAAP Earnings Surprises:  


What we find quite concerning when analyzing NUVA’s recent earnings surprises (below) are 


twofold. First, when looking at the firm’s recent positive non-GAAP earnings surprises, we 


observed that NUVA was only beating their estimate by small percentages, particularly only 


2.9% for each quarter over the TTM. With the amount of subjectivity involved with non-


GAAP exclusions, as discussed below, we at GHR believe it would be quite easy for 


management to either pay out more in SBC or report heightened “business transition costs” 


to just beat out non-GAAP estimates every period. 


Furthermore, where NUVA was able to either meet or beat in 11 consecutive periods 


pertaining to non-GAAP earnings dating back to Q4 2014, meanwhile the firm has missed 


GAAP earnings estimates in 6 of the last 11 periods. We at GHR do not believe this is a 


coincidence. Again, where the company was able to beat non-GAAP figures by an average of 


only 2.9% every period in the LTM, the firm pitifully missed GAAP earnings by an average 


of 20.5% every quarter.
33 | P a g e  
 


Amortization of Intangible Assets Surges as Acquisitions Heat up: 


As discussed at length is one of GHR’s previous reports, why does a company exclude these 


material expenses from income? GHR has looked at enough 10-Ks and Qs to understand the 


answer. Basically, management’s thinking is that this is a “non-cash” expense for the period 


so that it “doesn’t count.” Also, another baseless answer management would utter — if 


pressed on this — would be that “all our peers in the industry do this as well.” The crazy part 


is the exclusions of amortization expenses are highly material to earnings and the sell-side is 


fine with just ignoring them. Amortization expenses in a medical device company is 


extremely material and should not be overlooked.  Take a look a future estimated 


amortization expenses NUVA disclosed in its FY2015 10-K:   





Now let’s view this same table, but in the next year after the firm’s Ellipse Techonolgies Inc. 


acquisition: 





It is obvious to us here at GHR why management would love you to discard these expenses 


as non-cash. In fact, it is astonishing to point out that these expected expenses for 2017 


equate to over 45% of total non-GAAP net income! And we are just suppose to act like they 


never happened!  


Amortization is without a doubt a cash item, it just shifts when the cash is paid out. 


Specifically, if you refer back to the Cash Flow Statement of NUVA on Page 29, on the two 


line items under “Investing Activities”, that is exactly where NUVA pays out in CASH for 


those intangible assets. Does the company remove that expense on the income statement at 


that time because it’s a cash item? No, but GHR indicates that the company cannot have it 


both ways, (a) cry that something is a “non-cash” item when it amortizes, and (b) state that 


doesn’t matter when you pay for the acquisition in cash.
34 | P a g e  
 


Business Transition Costs Go Back 18 Quarters and Counting:  


Based on the consistency of the excluded charges of “business transition costs”, management 


clearly has no plans to cease taking these charges in the near future. Specifically from the 


firm’s 10-K these costs are defined as: 


We incur certain costs related to acquisition, integration and business transition activities which 


include severance, relocation, consulting, leasehold exit costs, third party merger and 


acquisitions costs and other costs directly associated with such activities.  


The Company has reclassified historically presented product line revenue to conform to the 


current period presentation. The Company has also reclassified certain operating expenses into 


business transition costs. Both reclassifications have no impact on previously reported results of 


operations or financial position. 


The fact the company is able to reclassify what was previous normal operating expenses into 


the non-GAAP excluded “business transition costs” is scary for all investors of this company. 


Giving management this much subjectivity over non-GAAP earnings is careless and 


negligent. It is obvious to every person that understands the purpose of non-GAAP earnings 


and one-time items that any company taking 18 quarters in a row worth of expenses that it is 


a normal part of the firm’s business. Not a one-time item.
35 | P a g e  
 


High Ranking Executives Quentin Blackford and Jason Hannon Jump Ship 


As a general rule our analysts follow, when a high executive announces to step down with no 


successor in place or not at retirement age, it is a red flag that problems were brewing in the 


C-suite. Contrary to this statement, management gave the standard, “Mr. Blackford is 


leaving to pursue other interests” on 07/27/17. Corroborating this theme on the conference 


call Mr. Blackford stated: 


Finally, I'd like to touch on my decision to leave the company to pursue another opportunity. It's 


important for everybody to understand that in no way was this decision connected to any 


conflict or disagreements with Greg, our Audit Committee or our board.  


Nothing to see here right? Maybe in itself this would not be so concerning… but with his 


former colleague and President Jason Hannon leaving at the same time including the 


multitude of earnings quality concerns discussed herein, we find this to be highly peculiar. 


Mr. Blackford has been with NUVA since 2009 where he started as a corporate controller. 


Working his way up through the corporate ladder, positions in Investor Relations before 


finally landing both the CFO and chief accounting officer position in August 2014. First off, 


we question why these two positions (CFO/CAO) are held by the same person as this surely 


violates separation of duties regarding internal controls. Also, while we find that Mr. 


Blackford did obtain his CPA license, it has since been deemed inactive at this time. The lack 


of public accounting experience also adds to our concern when detailing all the accounting 


red flags of NUVA.  


Since his departure, Mr. Blackford has now taken a new position as CFO at Dexcom, a 


similar size company, although his new salary has not been disclosed in their proxy 


statement yet. Additionally, Rajesh Asaporta has been appointed to CFO at NUVA as of 


08/15/17.  


In an even more perplexing move, COO/President Jason Hannon abruptly left NUVA on 


07/27/17 as well. He held the position for less than one year as he was appointed to that role 


on 09/12/16. He previously worked at the company for 11 years in a variety of roles. But the 


most peculiar thing about his leaving was where he ended up. Although Mr. Blackford at 


least ended up at another similarly sized company (and assuming salary), Mr. Hannon left to 


end up at MainStay Medical, a company with a market capitalization of only $100 million. 


This is compared to NuVasive which currently has an approximate market capitalization of 


$3 billion at the time of publication. Mr. Hannon also left a total compensation package of 


near $3 million per year based on the firm’s latest proxy. It is highly doubtful that he can 


pull this time of total compensation at a much smaller medical device company. Mr. Hannon
36 | P a g e  
 


also received an enormous package of fringe benefits (nearly $1 million) that included 


personal benefits of group life insurance, benefits associated with expatriate assignments, 


benefits in connection with NUVA’s sales incentive award trip and finally spousal attendance 


at certain events and functions.  


We cannot stress enough the red flags that two high ranking executives leaving a company at 


a time when the CEO is touting the company’s $1 billion revenue goal left and right, and 


what that means in the nefarious sense. Especially when both the stepping down of positions 


was not due to retirement reasons. Combined with the aforementioned accounting headwinds 


discussed in this report, our analysts believe that restatements and delayed filings lie ahead 


based on our experience (similar to what we foretold with EFII).  


NUVA has also had previous conflicts with its C-Suite as recently as 2015 when its previous 


Chairman and CEO, Alex Lukianov resigned over violations of the firm’s personnel and 


expense reimbursement policies. In a tale where the present mimics the past, the then COO 


Keith Valentine also unexpectedly quit NUVA ending his 14 year tenure with the company.  


An independent investigation overseen by NUVA’s board revealed that Alex had not 


complied with certain of the Company’s expense reimbursement and personnel policies. 


There was no indication in the NUVA statement what specific violations of corporate 


personnel or expense reimbursement policies might have occurred.  


Furthermore in mid-2013, NUVA disclosed in its financial results that it had received a 


federal administrative subpoena from the OIG “in connection with an investigation into 


possible false or otherwise improper claims referred to Medicare and Medicaid.” 


The OIG inquiry corresponded with a “special fraud alert” the same OIG had issued several 


months prior, which raised concerns over incentive payments to physician-owned groups 


that order certain implantable medical devices for use on patients. The OIG fraud alert did 


not identify any specific medical devices, firms, or procedures. 


But the statement renewed OIG’s ongoing concerns about revenue-sharing arrangements 


between device producers and so-called “physician-owned distributors,” and noted that an 


“anti-kickback statute” is intended to protect patients from inappropriate referrals or 


recommendations by doctors who are unduly influenced by financial incentives. 



http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?c=176872&p=irol-SECText&TEXT=aHR0cDovL2FwaS50ZW5rd2l6YXJkLmNvbS9maWxpbmcueG1sP2lwYWdlPTkwNTE5MzImRFNFUT0wJlNFUT0wJlNRREVTQz1TRUNUSU9OX0VOVElSRSZzdWJzaWQ9NTc%3d#s32D21C032CB8A80B736BF66DA8552BCD

http://www.utsandiego.com/news/2013/jul/31/nuvasive-subpoena/

http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/docs/alertsandbulletins/2013/POD_Special_Fraud_Alert.pdf
37 | P a g e  
 


But altogether, this company appears to have a history where internal controls are highly 


lacking with not much oversight.  





Easily Manipulated Short-Term Performance Incentives Drive Motivation to Manage Earnings: 


• After analyzing the firm’s Proxy Statements and Summary Compensation Table & 


Performance Goals, we find that NUVA uses revenue and non-GAAP operating margin 


performance goals. This is where we believe drives a high motivation to manage 


earnings to the upside. Especially, when the bonuses are based on easily manipulated 


non-GAAP margins.  





• Below is NUVA’s annual incentive except from its 2016 Proxy: 


2016 Executive Compensation Highlights. NuVasive’s executive compensation 
program emphasizes pay-for-performance. For our NEOs [Named Executive Officers], 
the Committee sets a significant portion of target total annual direct compensation in the 
form of variable incentives that are designed to motivate our NEOs to achieve overall 
Company goals, specific business goals and individual performance goals. Below is a 
summary of the compensation decisions made in 2016. 





• Below we detail the revenue/non-GAAP operating margin performance goals and 


payouts for 2016 and 2015. Here we can see that management came in exactly at both 


its revenue and non-GAAP operating goals with only a 0.1% and 0.7% deviation, 


respectively in 2016.
38 | P a g e  
 


2016: 











2015:
39 | P a g e  
 


• We can observe here that the firm’s bonuses paid out to its NEOs are a highly 


substantial amount of their cash base salary. In fact, we see that the bonuses equate to 


over 100% for each NEO listed above.  





• We have already discussed ad nauseam how easy it can be to manipulate the firm’s non-


GAAP figures. In 2016, we see that NUVA had a non-GAAP operating margin goal of 


15.9% and that the “actual” figure came in at 16.01%, and 11 bps difference. How easy 


could it have been for management to add on to its “business transition costs” and 


therefore hit this just reached milestone?  





• Furthermore, while most novice analysts believe that revenue cannot be manipulated, we 


have discussed time and time again how NUVA channel stuffing its clients and pulling 


forward of revenue could have easily accounted for reaching this short-term goal. We 


believe that the fact that the company offers such short-term performance goals leads to 


the cutting of many corners and is counter-intuitive to the long-term health of the firm 


based on our experience. 








As Accounting Complexity Grows for NUVA, so does their Audit Fees: 


• Focusing in on NUVA’s audit fees that it has paid to Ernst & Young, we find that these 


figures have grown drastically over the past five years as NUVA has continued to 


growth through a series of acquisitions adding to the accounting complexity of the 


overall company.  





• But more importantly, as these companies grow, auditors now begin to rake in millions 


upon millions of dollars that relate to the growing firm. This leaves us with two 


hypothesis that could be gathered from increased audit fees to the auditor: 1) If higher 


audit fees are associated with greater auditor effort or a fee premium for auditor 


specialization, it could be expected that the quality of the audit would be higher; or 2) 


contrarily, relatively larger audit fees might lead the auditor to become economically 


dependent on the client, thereby eroding independence.
40 | P a g e  
 


• According to a recent study “The Relationship Between Audit Fees and Earnings 


Quality of Financial Institutions”, there was a correlation found results that supported 


the hypothesis that higher audit fees are associated with companies reporting higher 


discretionary accruals. Thus, the results are consistent with auditors providing greater 


latitude in reporting earnings for clients that are charged relatively higher audit fees.  





• In NUVA’s case, we can see that the amount of auditor fees have skyrocketed in recent 


years spiking by 144.3% to $2.12 million versus only $865,855 million only five years 


ago. On the Chart below, the reader can see how material these audit fees have 


ballooned over the past several years. Overall, we believe that because of these 


heightened fees, this gives NUVA’s managers the ability and leeway to manage 


earnings through its complexity and acquisition accounting. 























 $-


 $500,000


 $1,000,000


 $1,500,000


 $2,000,000


 $2,500,000


2 0 1 62 0 1 52 0 1 42 0 1 32 0 1 2


NUVA AUDIT FEES
41 | P a g e  
 


EFI’s Share Price Premium is Based on Unsustainable Earnings  


While the sell-side community continues to value NUVA by the company’s given measure of 


non-GAAP earnings and “adjusted EBITDA,” we at GHR believes the company’s true 


economic earnings can be better estimated using more rational metrics such as GAAP earnings 


and/or free-cash-flow, including acquisitions. If analysts do not adjust for the obviously 


recurring and true expenses such as amortization and “business transition costs”, it is irrational 


that the market is valuing this company with a GAAP P/E multiple of over 90x.  





Exacerbating the issue, several of the accounting irregularities detailed throughout this report 


makes NUVA’s current multiples appear to be even more outrageous. In order to come to a true 


sustainable earnings amount for NUVA, we need to back out all figures that we believe are 


transitory in nature. Regarding inventory, AR, accrued expenses, and capitalized software, we 


normalized these figures based on historical estimates and therefore calculated the impact to 


EPS impact. Basing our valuation on our sustainable forward EPS of $1.25, we believe a fair 


share-price for the firm stands currently at $24.18, which represents a 58.2% downside to the 


share-price. This uses an industry multiple of 19.4x as shown below. 





 TTM P/E NTM P/E 


EV / 


EBITDA P / CFOA P / FCF 


JNJ 22.91 18.12 14.19 17.55 19.83 


MDT 27.74 18.12 14.19 18.40 22.94 


GMED 27.12 17.10 14.43 16.81 22.89 


ZBH 33.12 22.73 12.49 13.87 20.45 


SYK 32.26 13.84 12.03 29.10 40.74 


OFIX 117.16 21.48 17.55 26.93 46.39 





Median 29.71 19.35 14.05 17.65 22.98 


NUVA 91.00 25.62 15.36 23.83 156.96 


% Diff w/NUVA 203.3% 29.39% 7.32% 32.6% 584.9% 








light of our concerns regarding the abrupt departure of key executives, corporate culture, 


lackluster free-cash-flow generation, channel-stuffing concerns, bloated AR on the balance sheet 


and depleted accrued expense balance, GHR finds the current stock price to be highly egregious. 


Furthermore, we see added risk regarding the company’s limited disclosure regarding its organic 


revenue growth and fundamental headwinds in its competitive space. Accordingly, we are 


initiating coverage on NuVasive Inc., with a target price of $24.18.
42 | P a g e  
 


Full Legal Disclaimer: As of the publication date of this report, GlassHouse, LLC and others that 


contributed research to this report and others that we have shared our research with (collectively, the 


“Authors”) have short positions in, and own put option positions on, the stock of NuVasive (NUVA), and 


stand to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock decreases. Following publication of the 


report, the Authors may transact in the securities of the company covered herein. All content in this 


report represent the opinions of GlassHouse. The Authors have obtained all information herein from 


sources they believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such information is presented “as is,” 


without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. The Authors make no representation, 


express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 


regard to the results obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without 


notice, and the Authors do not undertake to update or supplement this report or any information 


contained herein. This document is for informational purposes only and it is not intended as an official 


confirmation of any transaction. All market prices, data and other information are not warranted as to 


completeness or accuracy and are subject to change without notice. The information included in this 


document is based upon selected public market data and reflects prevailing conditions and the Authors’ 


views as of this date, all of which are accordingly subject to change.  





This is not investment advice nor should it be construed as such. Use of GlassHouse LLC’s research is at 


your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any investment 


decision with respect to securities covered herein. Following publication of any report or letter, we 


intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at 


any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation 


of an offer to buy any security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction 


in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. GlassHouse LLC is 


not registered as an investment advisor. To the best of our knowledge, information and belief, as of the 


date hereof, (a) all information contained herein is accurate and reliable and does not omit to state 


material facts necessary to make the statements herein not misleading, and all information has been 


obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and (b) who are not insiders or 


connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 


confidentiality to the issuer, or to any other person or entity whose fiduciary duty was breached by the 


transmission of information to GlassHouse LLC. However, GlassHouse LLC recognizes that there may be 


non-public information in the possession NUVA that has not been publicly disclosed by the company. 


Therefore, such information contained herein is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – 


whether express or implied. GlassHouse LLC makes no other representations, express or implied, as to 


the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 


obtained from its use.
