7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 1/24


Short	Ideas 	|	 Tech	 	|	 Editors'	Picks


Boingo	Wireless:	Strong	Sell	Due	To	Deteriorating	Profitability	And
Looming	Liquidity	Issues
Top	Idea | Aug.	18,	2015	5:00	AM	ET7	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Boingo	management	is	signing	uneconomical	DAS	contracts	which	boost	short-term
cash	flow	at	the	expense	of	long-term	profitability.


Management's	short-sighted	and	unprofitable	DAS	strategy	is	likely	to	lead	to	severe
liquidity	issues	for	Boingo	in	the	near	future.


The	continued	and	rapid	decline	in	the	company's	retail	subscribers	has	further
pressured	profitability.


Growth	in	the	Military	and	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	segments	will	not	be	enough	to	offset	the
negative	trends	in	DAS	and	Retail	Wi-Fi.


Boingo	shares	are	overvalued	by	~75%	at	the	current	share	price	level.


When	I	first	looked	at	the	financials	of	Boingo	Wireless	(NASDAQ:WIFI)	("Boingo"	or	the
"Company"),	I	was	quite	puzzled.	For	some	reason,	despite	consistently	reporting
increasing	revenues	over	the	past	few	years,	the	Company's	net	losses	were	increasing	at
an	alarming	rate.	Since	going	public	in	2011,	Boingo's	top	line	has	increased	26%,	from
$94.6mm	in	FY	2011	to	$119.3mm	in	FY	2014.	However,	during	that	same	time	frame,
EPS	has	declined	from	$0.17	to	a	loss	of	$0.55,	while	its	net	cash	balance	has	dwindled
from	$94.4mm	to	$7.0mm.	Recently,	this	divergence	between	revenue	growth	and
profitability	has	only	become	even	more	pronounced.	In	FY	2015,	management	expects
revenue	to	increase	14-18%	versus	FY	2014.	However,	despite	the	large	projected
increase	in	annual	revenue,	management	expects	EPS	losses	to	further	increase	from
$0.55	in	FY	2014	to	$0.69-0.77	in	FY	2015.


So,	why	are	Boingo's	losses	accelerating,	when	revenues	are	increasing	by	such	a	large
amount?	The	answer	is	that	the	Company	simply	operates	in	competitive	and	unattractive
business	segments,	where	it	is	difficult	for	it	to	make	money.	In	the	DAS	segment,	Boingo
is	at	a	significant	competitive	disadvantage	to	larger	players	such	as	Crown	Castle
(NYSE:CCI)	and	Extenet,	who	own	their	own	fiber	and	are	better	capitalized.	Perhaps	due
to	their	weak	competitive	position,	management	has	resorted	to	signing	low-margin,	front-



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/technology

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/editors-picks

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WIFI

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CCI
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 2/24


loaded	DAS	deals.	These	deals	boost	cash	flow	in	the	short	term,	but	are	a	huge	drain	on
Boingo's	overall	profitability	and	cash	flow	over	the	long	term.	In	my	opinion,	the	significant
and	long-lasting	(average	DAS	contract	length	is	~10	years)	cash	burn	resulting	from
these	deals	will	eventually	lead	to	significant	liquidity	problems	for	the	Company.	Further
pressuring	Boingo's	profitability	is	the	continued	declines	in	its	Retail	Wi-Fi	business.	The
Company	is	losing	retail	subscribers	at	a	rapid	pace	due	to	the	increasing	proliferation	of
free	public	Wi-Fi	hotspots.	Boingo's	retail	subscriber	margins	are	relatively	high,	so	the
declines	in	this	segment	have	also	placed	a	good	deal	of	pressure	on	overall	margins	and
profitability.	On	the	positive	side,	its	Military	and	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	segments	are	expected
to	generate	a	decent	amount	of	growth	over	the	next	few	years.	However,	I	believe	that
the	growth	in	these	segments	will	not	meet	investor	expectations	and	will	not	be	nearly
enough	to	offset	the	Company's	unprofitable	DAS	strategy	and	continued	declines	in	retail
subscribers.


At	the	moment,	investors	and	research	analysts	do	not	appear	to	agree	with	my	bearish
assessment.	From	August	15,	2014	to	August	14,	2015,	Boingo's	stock	price	has
increased	45%,	from	$6.25	to	$9.07	per	share.	In	addition	to	this,	research	analysts	are
generally	bullish	on	the	Company's	prospects,	with	an	average	target	share	price	of
$12.65.	I	believe	that	the	bullishness	of	investors	and	analysts	is	misplaced,	given	the
concerns	which	I	have	highlighted	above.	I	also	believe	that	many	investors	and	research
analysts	do	not	realize	the	extent	to	which	Boingo's	financial	performance	has
deteriorated.	Management	has	deemphasized	metrics	like	GAAP	net	income	and	free
cash	flow	(FCF)	in	favor	of	less	relevant	metrics	like	EBITDA	and	gross	margin.	Following
management's	lead,	many	investors	and	research	analysts	have	also	focused	on	EBITDA
and	gross	margin,	while	largely	ignoring	other	profitability	metrics.	As	a	result,	investors
and	research	analysts	mistakenly	believe	that	the	YTD	increases	in	EBITDA	and	gross
margin	are	evidence	that	the	Company's	financial	performance	is	improving.	In	reality,
based	on	more	relevant	financial	metrics,	its	performance	has	continued	to	decline.


In	many	ways,	the	situation	at	Boingo	reminds	me	of	my	short	thesis	for	Rosetta	Stone
(NYSE:RST),	which	I	published	on	SA	in	December	of	last	year.	Like	Boingo,	RST	was
able	to	mask	the	ongoing	deterioration	in	its	business	by	emphasizing	less	meaningful
metrics	like	EBITDA.	Also	similar	to	Boingo	was	the	fact	that	RST	was	signing	front-
loaded,	multi-year	contracts	which	provided	a	temporary	boost	to	FCF.	Eventually,	RST's
share	price	declined	substantially	as	investors	caught	onto	management's	practices.	Over
time,	I	expect	a	similar	scenario	will	play	out	with	Boingo	as	investors	realize	just	how
poorly	the	Company	is	performing.	Overall,	for	all	the	reasons	which	I	have	outlined	above



http://finance.yahoo.com/q/ao?s=WIFI+Analyst+Opinion

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2775165-rosetta-stone-misleading-financials-mask-continued-deterioration-in-business

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RST
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 3/24


and	will	expand	upon	in	detail	below,	I	believe	this	is	a	tremendous	short	opportunity.	My
estimate	of	fair	value	for	Boingo	shares	is	$2.28,	which	represents	a	75%	discount	to	the
current	share	price	of	$9.07.


EBITDA	and	Gross	Margin	Are	Poor	Measures	of	Boingo's	Financial	Performance


Many	investors	and	research	analysts	have	focused	on	EBITDA	as	a	key	metric	in
evaluating	Boingo's	business.	The	problem	with	this	is	that	EBITDA	is	simply	a	poor
measure	of	the	Company's	financial	performance.	In	the	table	below,	I	have	provided	a
comparison	of	WIFI's	EBITDA	results	to	its	key	balance	sheet,	income	statement	and	FCF
metrics	from	FY	2011	to	FY	2014:


As	shown	in	the	table	above,	EBITDA	has	been	meaningfully	positive	every	single	year
since	FY	2011.	This	is	in	stark	contrast	to	EPS	and	FCF	generation,	which	have	been
deeply	negative	over	the	past	couple	years.	In	FY	2013	and	FY	2014,	the	Company
reported	an	EPS	loss	of	$0.11	and	$0.55,	respectively.	During	those	same	two	fiscal
years,	Boingo	reported	a	cumulative	FCF	loss	of	$58.5mm,	while	its	net	cash	position
declined	from	$100.0mm	(end	of	FY	2012)	to	$7.0mm	(end	of	FY	2014).	Given	this	large
disconnect	between	EBITDA	versus	EPS	and	FCF	performance,	it	should	become	evident
that	EBITDA	is	a	flawed	metric	for	evaluating	Boingo's	business.
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 4/24


So	why	exactly	is	EBITDA	such	a	poor	measure	of	the	Company's	financial	performance?
It	is	a	flawed	metric	because	Boingo	is	a	very	capital-intensive	business.	Building	and
maintaining	Wi-Fi	and	DAS	networks	requires	a	significant	amount	of	capex	year	after
year.	Provided	in	the	table	below	is	a	breakout	of	Boingo's	annual	depreciation	expense
and	capex	from	FY	2011	to	FY	2014:


From	FY	2011	to	FY	2014,	Boingo	spent	an	average	of	$33.8mm	in	capex.	Over	time,	the
amount	of	capex	by	the	Company	has	continuously	increased	on	both	a	dollar	amount
and	percentage	of	revenue	basis.	This,	in	turn,	has	resulted	in	an	increasing	amount	of
annual	depreciation	expense	for	the	business.	Outside	of	network	access	costs,
depreciation	expense	is	the	largest	expenditure	for	the	Company	on	an	annual	basis.	This
is	a	real	and	significant	annual	expense	that	must	be	accounted	for.	EBITDA,	by	definition,
does	not	include	depreciation	expenses.	Thus,	EBITDA	is	a	poor	measure	of	financial
performance,	because	it	excludes	the	second-largest	expense	item	of	Boingo's	business.


Another	flawed	metric	provided	by	management	is	gross	margin.	By	definition,	gross
margin	should	include	all	the	direct	material	and	labor	costs	incurred	by	the	Company	to
provide	its	services.	However,	for	some	reason	Boingo	management	has	decided	to	use	a
different	definition	of	gross	margin.	In	its	definition,	the	Company	excludes	~35%	of	its
direct	costs	by	excluding	network	operations	expenses	as	a	deduction	from	gross	profit.	In
other	words,	the	Company	is	reporting	an	inflated	and	misleading	gross	margin	statistic.
This	is	clearly	illustrated	in	the	table	provided	below:
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 5/24


As	shown	in	the	table	above,	the	Company's	definition	of	gross	margin	excludes	network
operations	as	an	expense.	Network	operations	are	defined	as	follows	in	Boingo's	FY	2014
10K:


"Network	operations	expenses	consist	of	costs	for	our	customer	service	department
and	for	our	operations	staff	that	designs,	builds,	monitors	and	maintains	the	network.
Also	included	are	expenses	for	our	customer	service	provider	that	handles	customer
care	inquiries	and	expenses	for	network	operations	contractors,	equipment
depreciation	and	software	and	hardware	maintenance	fees."


Based	on	the	above	definition,	network	operations	should	be	included	when	calculating
gross	margin,	because	those	costs	are	directly	associated	with	keeping	Boingo's	DAS	and
Wi-Fi	networks	running.	When	network	operations	expenses	are	included,	Boingo's	gross
margin	in	1H	2015	declines	from	53.5%	(Company	Definition)	to	28.4%	(Adjusted
Definition).	Thus,	the	Company's	reported	1H	2015	gross	margin	is	overstated	by	over
25%.	Also,	some	investors	were	encouraged	by	the	increase	in	the	Company's	reported
gross	margin	from	52.3%	in	1H	2014	to	53.5%	in	1H	2015.	However,	after	adjusting	for
network	operations	expenses,	its	gross	margin	actually	declined	from	31.1%	in	1H	2014	to
28.4%	in	1H	2015.	The	key	takeaway	from	all	of	this	is	that,	like	EBITDA,	management's
definition	of	gross	margin	is	a	poor	measure	of	Boingo's	financial	performance.


Accelerating	Net	Losses	and	Continued	Poor	FCF	Generation	Are	Red	Flags


On	August	6th,	Boingo	reported	its	Q2	2015	quarterly	results.	For	the	first	six	months	of
2015,	revenue	increased	16%	year	over	year,	from	$54.8mm	to	$63.7mm.	During	that
same	time	frame,	EBITDA	also	increased	from	$9.0mm	to	$10.2mm,	while	gross	margin



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10566343-813-413293&type=sect&TabIndex=2&dcn=0001047469-15-002268&nav=1&src=Yahoo
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 6/24


improved	from	52.3%	to	53.5%.	As	part	of	the	Q2	report,	management	also	raised	its
revenue	guidance	for	the	year	by	$1-2mm,	while	maintaining	its	EBITDA	and	EPS
projections.	A	summary	of	management's	revised	guidance	for	FY	2015	is	provided	below:


Revenue	of	$136.0	million	to	$141.0	million	(a	14-18%	increase	versus	FY	2014)
Adjusted	EBITDA	of	$27.0-30.0	million	(versus	$20.3mm	in	FY	2014)
Fully	diluted	EPS	loss	of	$0.77-0.69	(versus	an	EPS	loss	of	$0.55	in	FY	2014)


Overall,	the	Q2	2015	results	were	perceived	by	research	analysts	to	be	positive.	The
strong	year-over-year	increase	in	YTD	and	projected	full-year	FY	2015	revenue,	EBITDA
and	gross	margin	has	led	research	analysts	into	thinking	that	the	Company's	performance
is	improving	(as	reflected	in	their	increased	target	prices).	However,	I	believe	this	positive
reaction	to	earnings	and	guidance	is	misguided.	As	I	established	in	the	prior	section,
EBITDA	and	gross	margin	are	poor	measures	of	Boingo's	financial	performance.	Instead
of	focusing	on	these	performance	metrics,	analysts	and	investors	should	focus	on	more
relevant	ones.	This	includes	EPS	and	FCF	generation,	which	are	more	relevant	than
EBITDA,	because	both	metrics	take	into	account	depreciation	expenses	/	capex.	In
regards	to	gross	margin,	I	believe	that	my	adjusted	definition	of	gross	margin	is	more
meaningful	than	the	Company's	definition,	due	to	the	inclusion	of	network	operations
expenses.


According	to	what	I	believe	are	more	relevant	financial	metrics,	Boingo's	financial
performance	has	continued	to	deteriorate	in	FY	2015.	As	demonstrated	in	the	prior
section,	after	including	network	operations	expenses,	gross	margin	has	actually	declined
from	31.1%	in	1H	2014	to	28.4%	in	1H	2015.	In	regards	to	EPS,	1H	2015	EPS	losses
have	increased	to	$0.38,	versus	$0.26	in	the	first	six	months	of	last	year.	Management	is
also	projecting	full-year	FY	2015	EPS	losses	of	$0.77-0.69,	which	is	significantly	higher
than	last	year's	loss	of	$0.55.	The	large	decline	in	adjusted	gross	margin	and	increase	in
EPS	losses	are	troubling	trends.	The	significant	increase	in	projected	FY	2015	EPS	loss	is
especially	concerning,	considering	that	revenue	is	expected	to	increase	by	14-18%	this
year.	This	seems	to	indicate	that	Boingo	has	an	unattractive	business	model	that	is
difficult	to	scale	up	and	eventually	turn	a	profit.	Perhaps	most	alarming	is	its	YTD	FCF
generation.	On	the	surface,	the	Company's	YTD	FCF	results	look	considerably	better	than
its	net	profit	results.	For	the	first	six	months	of	FY	2015,	Boingo	reported	slightly	positive
FCF	(FCF	from	Operations	-	Capital	Expenditures)	of	$1.5mm.	However,	the	FCF
benefited	from	a	large	net	cash	infusion	of	almost	$40mm	from	upfront	payments	for	DAS
buildout	contracts	(as	reflected	in	the	increase	in	Q2	2015	deferred	revenue	liabilities).	As
I	will	explain	later	in	this	article,	these	upfront	DAS	cash	infusions	boost	cash	flows	in	the
short	term	at	the	expense	of	long-term	cash	flow	generation.	Excluding	this	short-term
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 7/24


benefit,	the	Company's	FCF	would	have	been	deeply	negative.	So,	after	taking	a	more
holistic	view	of	Boingo's	financial	results,	it	is	clear	to	see	that	its	performance	is	on	a
steep	downward	trajectory.


Boingo's	DAS	Business	Is	Highly	Unprofitable


So	why	has	the	Company's	financial	performance	deteriorated	so	much?	The	primary
reason	for	Boingo's	poor	performance	can	be	attributed	to	its	questionable	DAS	strategy.
During	the	first	half	of	FY	2015,	Boingo	signed	a	large	number	of	DAS	contracts.	In	fact,
on	July	14,	the	Company	proudly	announced	that	it	had	signed	30	DAS	deals	from	both
new	and	existing	deployments	during	the	first	six	months	of	the	year.	Its	strong	DAS	deal
momentum	has	contributed	to	the	bullish	sentiment	amongst	the	investor	community.
However,	what	investors	and	research	analysts	do	not	seem	to	realize	is	that	these	deals
contain	very	economically	challenging	terms	for	Boingo.	As	a	result,	despite	signing	an
increasing	amount	of	DAS	contracts,	the	Company's	DAS	segment	has	remained	highly
unprofitable	and	will	likely	remain	so	for	the	foreseeable	future.


Before	expanding	on	the	economics	of	the	Company's	DAS	deals,	I	think	it	would	be
helpful	to	first	walk	through	how	its	DAS	contracts	are	typically	structured.	There	are	two
revenue	components	to	every	DAS	contract	-	buildout	and	access.	Buildout	revenue	is	the
revenue	that	Boingo	receives	from	the	carriers	for	installing	and	deploying	the	DAS
network.	Access	revenue	is	a	monthly	usage	fee	that	Boingo	charges	to	carriers	for	using
the	DAS	network.	The	amount	of	the	monthly	usage	charge	is	dependent	on	the	amount
of	data	that	is	consumed	on	the	DAS	network	during	that	particular	month.	A	portion	of	the
access	revenue,	typically	a	fixed	percentage	of	the	total,	is	then	shared	with	the	venue
owner.	Usually,	a	single	carrier	will	"lead"	the	DAS	contract	and	will	subsidize	the	entire
buildout	of	the	DAS	network.	Later	on,	as	new	carriers	join	the	network,	the	additional
carriers	will	reimburse	the	lead	carrier	for	their	prorated	portion	of	the	buildout	costs.
Boingo	receives	cash	for	the	entire	buildout	portion	of	the	project	upfront,	books	it	as	a
deferred	revenue	liability	on	its	balance	sheet,	and	then	recognizes	this	deferred	liability
as	buildout	revenue	on	a	straight-line	basis	over	the	length	of	the	contract	(typically
around	10	years).	As	an	example,	if	the	buildout	portion	of	a	DAS	contract	is	$10mm,	the
Company	would	receive	the	$10mm	upfront	as	cash,	book	a	$10mm	deferred	revenue
liability,	and	then	recognize	$1mm	of	amortized	buildout	revenue	per	year	for	10	years.


The	contracts	that	Boingo	negotiates	are	structured	differently	than	those	that	are	typically
negotiated	by	other	DAS	providers	like	Crown	Castle	and	Extenet.	The	difference	lies	in
how	the	Company	charges	its	buildout	revenue	versus	CCI	and	Extenet.	Usually,	the	DAS
provider	pays	for	the	equipment	needed	to	build	the	DAS	network	and	only	receives
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 8/24


buildout	revenue	for	installing	the	network.	However,	in	addition	to	charging	for	DAS
installation	services,	Boingo's	buildout	revenue	also	includes	a	subsidy	from	the	carrier	for
the	cost	of	the	network	equipment.	In	return	for	this	additional	buildout	revenue,	the
Company	charges	the	carriers	a	lower	monthly	access	fee	than	its	competitors.


So	why	are	its	DAS	deals	uneconomical?	There	are	a	couple	reasons.	First,	Boingo	is
charging	a	much	lower	price	per	node	than	its	competitors.	The	table	below	provides	a
side-by-side	comparison	of	DAS	revenue	per	node	for	Boingo	versus	its	competitors	CCI
and	Extenet.	Note	that	the	Extenet	figures	are	based	off	of	information	provided	in	a
recent	RCR	Wireless	News	article	dated	July	23.


As	shown	in	the	table	above,	Boingo's	annualized	revenue	per	node	through	the	first	six
months	of	FY	2015	totaled	just	$4,848	versus	>$15,195	and	>$15,750	for	CCI	and
Extenet,	respectively.	This	means	that	Boingo	receives	around	70%	less	revenue	per
node	than	its	competitors.	The	primary	reason	for	this	large	discount	in	revenue	per
node	is	because	the	Company	does	not	own	any	of	its	own	fiber.	As	a	result,	it	does	not
receive	any	fiber	access	fees	for	its	DAS	services.	By	contrast,	both	CCI	and	Extenet	own
their	own	fiber	and	receive	a	significant	amount	of	fiber	access	fees.	Boingo's	lack	of
owned	fiber	makes	it	much	more	difficult	for	the	Company	to	scale	the	DAS	business	and
generate	a	profit.	For	example,	assuming	all	three	companies	generate	the	same	gross
margin,	CCI	and	Extenet	would	receive	over	3	times	the	gross	profit	than	Boingo	for	the
same	venue.	This,	in	turn,	makes	it	much	easier	for	CCI	and	Extenet	to	cover	their



http://www.rcrwireless.com/20150723/network-infrastructure/extenet-systems-acquired-by-digital-bridge-tag4
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 9/24


marketing,	R&D,	and	other	SG&A	costs	and	scale	the	business	to	profitability.	Boingo,	on
the	other	hand,	needs	to	win	over	3	times	as	many	venue	contracts	to	scale	to	a	similar
level	as	its	competitors.


In	addition	to	unfavorable	per	node	pricing,	the	Company's	DAS	business	appears	to
generate	relatively	low	gross	margins.	One	of	the	reasons	for	this	is	that	Boingo	shares	a
very	high	percentage	of	its	access	revenue	with	the	venue	owner.	For	example,	on	the
Dallas	City	Hall	website,	a	presentation	is	provided,	which	outlines	the	terms	of	the	Dallas
Love	Field	Airport's	DAS	contract	with	Concourse	(a	subsidiary	of	Boingo).	On	slide	9	of
this	presentation,	the	following	information	is	presented:


"Concourse	has	agreed	to	provide	a	greater	of	75%	of	revenue	from	DAS	income
and	40%	revenue	from	Wi-Fi	internet	access	or	minimum	annual	guarantee..."


I	was	surprised	to	see	that	the	Company	is	sharing	such	a	large	percentage	(75%)	of	its
access	revenue	with	the	city	of	Dallas.	This	percentage	is	significantly	higher	than
Boingo's	Wi-Fi	revenue	sharing	agreements	that	typically	pay	out	between	30-50%	to	the
venue	owner.	Also,	it	appears	that	the	percentage	of	DAS	access	revenue	that	Boingo	is
sharing	with	the	venue	owner	is	significantly	higher	than	that	of	its	competitors.	For
example,	here	is	a	document	which	outlines	the	various	proposals	received	by	the	Los
Angeles	MTA	for	its	RFP	to	implement	a	DAS	network.	Page	8	of	this	document	details
the	revenue	sharing	payouts	proposed	by	the	various	third-party	bidders:


BAI	-	The	greater	of	minimum	annual	guarantee	payments	of	$100,000,	or	an	annual
payment	of	$64,800	per	participating	carrier.
CCI	-	The	greater	of	minimum	annual	guarantee	payments	of	$300,000,	or	a	25%
share	of	the	gross	revenues	received	from	the	participating	carriers.
InSite	-	The	greater	of	minimum	annual	guarantee	payments	of	$360,000,	or	a	53%
share	of	the	net	revenues	received	from	the	participating	carriers	(which	excludes
revenues	to	recover	operating	costs).


Based	on	these	bids,	it	appears	that	Boingo	is	sharing	a	much	larger	percentage	of	its
access	revenue	with	the	venue	owner	than	other	DAS	providers.	For	this	reason,	it	is
likely	that	the	Company's	DAS	gross	margin	is,	on	average,	much	lower	than	that	of	its
competitors.	Further	pressuring	margins	is	the	fact	that	Boingo	is	less	vertically	integrated
than	many	of	its	competitors,	due	to	not	owning	any	fiber.



http://www3.dallascityhall.com/committee_briefings/briefings0812/TEC_Contract-Wi-fi-LoveField_081412.pdf

http://media.metro.net/board/Items/2013/02_february/20130228RBMItem55.pdf
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 10/24


As	a	result	of	this	combination	of	lower	per	node	revenue	and	relatively	low	gross
margins,	Boingo's	DAS	business	appears	to	be	significantly	unprofitable.	Although	the
Company	does	not	explicitly	break	out	margins	and	expenses	by	segment,	it	is	possible	to
come	up	with	a	reasonable	estimate	of	the	DAS	segment's	profitability	from	publicly
available	information.	I	have	provided	below	my	estimate	of	the	overall	profitability	of
Boingo's	DAS	business:


The	assumptions	that	I	used	to	estimate	the	segment's	annualized	1H	2015	results	are	as
follows:


The	results	were	annualized	by	multiplying	the	revenue	and	expense	items	by	2.
Revenue:	Assumed	60%	buildout	revenue	/	40%	access	revenue	split	as	provided	by
management	during	the	Company's	Q2	2015	earnings	call.
Gross	Margin	-	Buildout:	Management	has	stated	that	DAS	buildout	revenue	is
meaningfully	lower	margin	relative	to	the	consolidated	business.	Thus,	I	assumed	a
gross	margin	range	of	between	35%	(downside	case)	and	45%	(upside	case),	which	is
below	the	Company's	1H	2015	consolidated	gross	margin	of	53.5%.
Gross	Margin	-	Access:	Based	on	the	25%	gross	margin	that	Boingo	negotiated	for
its	contract	with	Dallas	Love	Field	Airport,	I	assumed	a	gross	margin	range	of	20%
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 11/24


(downside	case)	to	40%	(upside	case).
Total	Operating	Expenses:	Total	DAS	revenue	accounted	for	34%	of	Boingo's	total
revenue	in	1H	2015.	Thus,	I	assumed	DAS	accounted	for	34%	of	all	operating
expenses	(network	operations,	development	&	technology,	S&M	and	G&A	expenses)
in	1H	2015.


Using	reasonable	and	conservative	gross	margin	and	operating	expense	assumptions,	I
was	able	to	demonstrate	just	how	unprofitable	the	Company's	DAS	business	is.	On	an
annualized	basis,	I	estimate	that	the	DAS	segment	generated	a	net	operating	loss	of
between	$12.4mm	and	$18.5mm	in	the	first	six	months	of	2015.	This	is	a	staggering
amount	of	losses	relative	to	the	Company's	annualized	1H	2015	DAS	revenue	of	$43mm.
Thus,	based	on	this	information,	it	appears	that	Boingo	management	is	currently	signing
DAS	contracts	with	very	thin	margins	that	have	little	to	no	chance	of	making	the	Company
money.	If	the	DAS	business	is	to	eventually	become	profitable,	the	Company	will	likely
need	to	negotiate	more	favorable	terms.	Unfortunately,	for	reasons	which	I	will	explain
below,	this	does	not	appear	to	be	a	likely	scenario.


In	my	opinion,	it	is	unlikely	that	Boingo's	DAS	segment	will	eventually	become	a	profitable
business	for	the	Company,	for	a	couple	reasons.	First,	as	mentioned	previously,	the
Company	does	not	own	any	fiber.	According	to	a	recent	article	on	RCR	Wireless	News,
owning	fiber	appears	to	be	an	economic	necessity	in	the	DAS	space.	In	this	article,	the
following	is	stated:


"...	after	the	April	30	announcement	of	the	$1	billion	acquisition	of	Sunesys,	it's
become	clear	that	Crown	Castle	needs	fiber	to	make	small	cell	deployment
economics	work."


The	value	of	fiber	was	further	reinforced	by	the	CEO	of	CCI	who	stated	the	following
during	their	Q2	2015	earnings	call:


"...	small	cells	(DAS)	can	be	thought	of	as	a	tower	laid	on	its	side,	a	horizontal	tower,
replacing	the	tower	structure	in	this	example	with	fiber.	At	its	core,	fiber	is	the
critical,	shareable	element	in	small	cells.	The	vast	majority	of	our	investment	in
building	out	a	small	cell	network	consists	of	the	investment	in	fiber."


Based	on	these	examples,	it	is	evident	that	many	industry	insiders	view	fiber	ownership	as
the	key	driver	of	economic	value	and	competitive	differentiation	in	the	DAS	segment.
Boingo	lacks	the	size	and	financial	resources	to	acquire	a	meaningful	amount	of	fiber.	As



http://www.rcrwireless.com/20150506/analyst-angle/analyst-angle-making-the-small-cell-economics-work-tag9

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3352615-crown-castle-internationals-cci-ceo-benjamin-moreland-on-q2-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 12/24


a	result,	the	Company's	currently	weak	competitive	position	in	the	DAS	space	will	likely
prevent	it	from	negotiating	more	favorable	and	profitable	deals	in	the	future.


Another	reason	why	I	believe	Boingo's	DAS	segment	will	remain	significantly	unprofitable
is	that,	in	general,	it	is	very	difficult	to	make	money	in	the	DAS	segment,	even	for	those
providers	who	own	fiber.	The	following	quote	from	a	recent	July	2	Barron's	article
highlights	the	current	challenging	economics	of	DAS:


"Each	of	the	wireless-tower	companies	invest	in	small	cells	and	DAS,	but	at	differing
levels.	While	Crown	Castle	International	is	moving	heavily	into	the	space,	American
Tower	(NYSE:AMT)	and	SBA	Communications	(NASDAQ:SBAC)	have	stated
that	the	economics	of	macro-tower	deployments	are	still	much	more
favorable."


At	the	moment,	with	the	exception	of	CCI,	most	of	the	large	cellular	tower	players	have	yet
to	make	a	strong	push	into	DAS	due	to	the	relatively	low	returns.	If	it	is	difficult	for	large,
well-capitalized	tower	players	to	make	a	profit	in	DAS,	then	it	must	be	even	more
challenging	for	a	2nd-tier	player	like	Boingo.	Overall,	given	Boingo's	weak	competitive
position	and	the	generally	unfavorable	economics	of	DAS	deployments,	the	future
prospects	of	the	Company's	DAS	business	do	not	look	all	that	bright.


Management's	Reckless	DAS	Strategy	Is	Putting	Boingo's	Financial	Health	At	Risk


So,	why	is	Boingo	management	signing	uneconomical	DAS	contracts?	I	believe	that
management	is	signing	these	deals	because	they	provide	the	Company	with	a	large,
short-term	cash	infusion.	As	I	explained	in	the	prior	section,	the	Company's	DAS	contracts
are	unprofitable	on	an	overall	basis.	It	is	unlikely	that	Boingo	will	be	able	to	negotiate	more
profitable	terms	for	its	DAS	contracts,	given	its	lack	of	owned	fiber	and	overall	weak
competitive	position.	However,	by	structuring	its	DAS	contracts	in	a	front-loaded	manner,
Boingo	is	getting	a	significant	cash	boost,	which	allows	the	Company	to	cover	its	current
cash	burn	and	short-term	capital	investment	needs	(i.e.,	Military	network	buildouts).	That
being	said,	the	trade-off	for	structuring	its	contracts	in	such	a	front-loaded	manner	is	that
the	Company's	future	cash	flows	from	these	contracts	will	be	minimal.	In	essence,	it	is
synthetically	borrowing	money	through	the	front-loading	of	DAS	contracts.	For	reasons
which	I	will	explain	below,	signing	unprofitable,	front-loaded	contracts	can	only	cover
Boingo's	cash	needs	for	so	long.	As	a	result,	I	believe	it	is	inevitable	that	the	Company	will
experience	serious	liquidity	issues	in	the	near	future.



http://online.barrons.com/articles/mobile-data-tidal-wave-to-lift-tower-stocks-1435862036

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMT

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SBAC
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 13/24


As	I	explained	earlier,	the	Company	receives	an	upfront	cash	payment	from	the	carriers
for	the	entire	buildout	portion	of	its	DAS	contracts.	This	upfront	payment	is	booked	as
deferred	revenue	and	then	amortized	over	the	life	the	contract	(typically	10	years).
Currently,	buildout	revenue	accounts	for	60%	of	the	Company's	total	DAS	revenue.	This
means	that,	for	a	contract	worth	$100mm	over	10	years,	Boingo	would	receive	$60mm	of
cash	upfront	for	the	buildout	portion	of	the	contract.	The	remaining	$40mm	for	the	access
portion	of	the	contract	would	be	paid	out	on	a	recurring	basis	($4mm	per	year)	over	the
next	10	years.	In	other	words,	60%	of	the	cash	from	a	DAS	contract	is	received	upfront,
while	the	remaining	40%	is	spread	out	over	a	period	of	10	or	so	years.	In	terms	of
revenue,	the	Company	would	recognize	$10mm	of	revenue	every	year	($6mm	of	noncash
amortized	deferred	buildout	revenue	plus	$4mm	of	access	revenue).	Provided	below	is	a
hypothetical	analysis	which	illustrates	the	degree	to	which	DAS	contracts	boost	Boingo's
short-term	cash	flow:
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 14/24


The	above	analysis	assumes	that	Boingo	signs	a	10-year,	$100mm	contract	in	each	of	the
first	3	years,	and	then	does	not	sign	a	new	DAS	contract	in	years	4-10.	I	also	assumed
that	buildout	and	access	revenue	account	for	60%	and	40%,	respectively,	of	the	total
contract	value.	Please	note	that	I	assumed	$100mm	contracts	for	illustrative	purposes	and
that	$100mm	is	significantly	larger	than	the	Company's	average	DAS	deal.	The	short-term
benefits	of	Boingo's	DAS	strategy	is	clearly	demonstrated	by	this	hypothetical	example.
The	Company	receives	$64mm,	$68mm	and	$72mm	of	cash	in	years	1,	2	and	3,
respectively.	This	large	cash	influx	is	due	to	upfront	buildout	cash	payments	of	$60mm
received	in	the	first	year	of	its	new	contracts.	Signing	such	front-loaded	contracts	has
helped	to	keep	Boingo	afloat	during	a	time	when	it	is	burning	through	a	lot	of	cash.


Unfortunately,	signing	contracts	for	short-term	cash	infusions	at	the	expense	of	long-term
profitability	is	not	a	sustainable	strategy.	The	problem	with	this	strategy	is	demonstrated	in
years	4-10	of	my	above	analysis.	In	these	years,	the	Company	does	not	win	any	new
contracts.	As	a	result,	the	total	annual	cash	received	from	DAS	contracts	declines	from
$72mm	in	year	3	to	just	$12mm	in	years	4-10.	The	entire	$12mm	of	cash	that	is	received
in	years	4-10	is	from	access	revenue	payments.	Assuming	75%	of	this	access	revenue	is
shared	with	the	venue	owners,	that	leaves	just	$3mm	of	cash	flow	to	cover	the	DAS
segment's	annual	operating	expenses.	Thus,	in	years	4-10,	the	Company's	DAS	segment
is	deeply	FCF-negative.	From	this	analysis,	the	problem	with	Boingo's	DAS	strategy
should	become	apparent.	In	order	to	sustain	the	business,	the	Company	must	sign	an
ever-increasing	amount	of	DAS	contracts	to	cover	losses	with	the	upfront	cash	infusions.
If	the	growth	in	new	DAS	contracts	stalls	or	declines,	Boingo	would	incur	significant	cash
losses,	and	its	practice	of	signing	unfavorable	contracts	would	finally	catch	up	with	the
Company.


Moving	away	from	hypotheticals,	I	will	now	discuss	Boingo's	historical	financial	results	to
further	illustrate	my	point.	Provided	below	is	a	side-by-side	comparison	of	Boingo's	1H
2015	FCF.	The	left	column	shows	Boingo's	actual	FCF,	including	net	cash	received	from
DAS	buildouts.	The	right	column,	by	contrast,	represents	FCF,	excluding	net	cash
received	from	DAS	buildouts.
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 15/24


As	shown	in	the	left	column,	the	Company's	1H	2015	operating	FCF	less	capex	was
$1.5mm.	However,	as	shown	in	the	right	column,	its	FCF	would	have	been	a	loss	of
$37.6mm,	if	the	net	cash	received	from	DAS	buildouts	is	excluded.	On	an
annualized	basis,	this	represents	an	FCF	loss	of	over	$75mm.	The	takeaway	from	the
above	analysis	is	that	if	the	Company	fails	to	sustain	its	current	rate	of	new	DAS
deployments,	Boingo	is	going	to	start	hemorrhaging	cash	at	an	alarming	rate.


In	summary,	I	believe	that	management's	DAS	strategy	is	completely	reckless	and	short-
sighted.	Although	signing	such	front-loaded	contracts	has	benefited	the	Company	in	the
short	term,	these	contracts	are	unprofitable	on	a	long-term	basis.	In	my	opinion,	the
financial	hole	that	Boingo	has	dug	for	itself	with	these	deals	is	much	too	deep	for	it	to
recover	from.	As	I	just	mentioned,	the	Company's	annualized	1H	2015	cash	burn,
excluding	net	cash	from	buildouts,	is	in	excess	of	$75mm.	Thus,	it	is	highly	likely	that	it	will
encounter	serious	liquidity	issues	in	the	near	future	once	the	rate	of	contract	wins	slows
down.


Further	Declines	In	Retail	To	Further	Pressure	Profitability


In	my	opinion,	Boingo's	questionable	and	unprofitable	DAS	strategy	is,	by	itself,	reason
enough	for	investors	to	sell	their	shares.	That	being	said,	another	item	that	investors
should	be	concerned	about	is	the	continued	and	brisk	decline	of	the	Company's	Retail	Wi-
Fi	business.	Most	investors	are	well	aware	that	Boingo's	Retail	Wi-Fi	business	will,	in	all
likelihood,	continue	to	decline.	Regardless,	I	believe	it	is	still	worth	touching	upon	briefly.


Due	to	the	increasing	proliferation	of	free	public	Wi-Fi	hotspots,	Boingo's	retail	subscriber
base	is	in	a	sharp	and	continuous	decline.	The	Company's	retail	subscribers	declined
24%,	from	296,000	in	Q2	2014	to	225,000	in	Q2	2015.	Boingo's	Retail	Wi-Fi	revenue	also
declined	by	over	21%,	from	$10.3mm	in	Q2	2014	to	$8.1mm	in	Q2	2015.	This	downward
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 16/24


trend	is	likely	to	continue	for	the	next	few	years,	as	the	number	of	free	public	Wi-Fi
hotspots	is	only	going	to	grow.	Within	the	next	three	years	or	so,	based	on	the	current	rate
of	decline	in	retail	subscribers,	I	expect	the	Company's	Retail	Wi-Fi	revenues	to	decline	to
around	$10mm	per	year.	Retail	Wi-Fi,	according	to	management,	is	a	very	high-margin
business	for	Boingo.	Thus,	the	continued	declines	in	Boingo's	Retail	Wi-Fi	business	will
place	a	significant	amount	of	pressure	on	the	Company's	profitability.


Military	And	Wholesale	Growth	Will	Not	Be	Enough	To	Save	Boingo


Boingo	has	five	business	segments	-	DAS,	Retail	Wi-Fi,	Advertising,	Military	Wi-Fi	and
Wholesale	Wi-Fi.	I	have	already	established	that	the	Company's	DAS	business	strategy	is
severely	flawed	and	highly	unprofitable.	I	have	also	established	that	Boingo's	Retail	Wi-Fi
revenue	will	most	likely	continue	to	decline.	In	regards	to	Advertising,	this	is	a	very	low-
margin	business,	and	growth	in	this	segment	has	recently	stalled.	By	the	process	of
elimination,	it	appears	that	the	only	hope	for	investors	are	the	Military	Wi-Fi	and
Wholesale	Wi-Fi	business	segments.	Investors	must	hope	that	growth	in	these	segments
will	be	enough	to	make	up	for	the	Company's	reckless	DAS	strategy	and	further	Retail
declines.	Unfortunately	for	Boingo	longs,	this	does	not	appear	to	be	a	likely	scenario.


Let's	begin	with	the	Military	Wi-Fi	segment.	Through	its	Military	Wi-Fi	business,	the
Company	has	a	contract	to	provide	Wi-Fi	broadband	and	IPTV	services	to	the	US	Army,
Air	Force	and	Marines.	Since	FY	2013,	Boingo	has	been	rolling	out	this	service	to	military
bases	across	the	US.	As	of	the	end	of	Q2	2015,	the	Company	has	installed	Wi-Fi	service
covering	a	total	of	160,000	beds.	Total	penetration	of	beds	was	25%	(40,000	subscribers),
at	an	average	monthly	ARPU	in	the	low-	to	mid-30s	range.	In	terms	of	revenue,	Boingo
reported	$4.2mm	of	Military	Wi-Fi	revenue	in	Q2	2015.	This	represents	an	annual	run-rate
of	$16.8mm	of	Military	Wi-Fi	revenue.	Management	has	stated	that	the	total	Military
opportunity	is	300,000	beds	covered,	with	a	target	maximum	penetration	of	around	30%.
The	Company	aims	to	reach	300,000	beds	covered	by	sometime	in	FY	2016.	In	the	table
below,	I	have	provided	a	comparison	of	the	segment's	current	annual	revenue	run	rate
versus	my	estimate	for	the	maximum	Military	Wi-Fi	revenue	opportunity	at	300,000	beds
covered:
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 17/24


The	"Full	Deployment"	column	in	the	table	above	represents	my	estimate	for	the
maximum	revenue	opportunity	of	the	Military	Wi-Fi	business	at	300,000	beds	covered.	I
have	assumed	ARPU	remains	at	around	$35	and	subscriber	penetration	increases	to
management's	target	of	30%.	Based	on	these	assumptions,	I	expect	the	Military	Wi-Fi
business	to	top	out	at	$37.8mm	of	annual	revenue.	This	represents	an	incremental
revenue	opportunity	of	$21mm	versus	the	current	annual	run-rate.	Although	$21mm	is	a
decent	amount	of	growth	over	the	next	couple	years,	it	will	not	be	nearly	enough	to	return
the	Company	to	profitability.	As	I	stated	previously,	over	the	next	three	years,	I	expect	the
Retail	Wi-Fi	segment's	annual	revenues	to	decline	to	around	$10mm,	which	represents	an
over	$22mm	decline	from	the	current	annual	run	rate	of	$32.4mm.	Management	has
stated	that	Retail	Wi-Fi	and	Military	Wi-Fi	are	both	high-margin	businesses	for	the
Company.	Thus,	I	believe	it	is	reasonable	to	assume	that	strong	gains	in	Military	Wi-Fi
revenue	are	almost	completely	offset	by	continued	large	declines	in	Retail	Wi-Fi	revenue.
In	other	words,	the	gains	in	Military	Wi-Fi	will	allow	the	Company	to	merely	"tread	water",
with	no	meaningful	improvements	or	declines	in	its	financial	performance.


So	basically,	this	leaves	Boingo's	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	business	with	the	sole	burden	of
erasing	the	Company's	current	net	losses	and	eventually	increasing	profitability	to	a	level
that	would	justify	the	current	share	price.	In	my	opinion,	this	is	highly	improbable,	given
the	large	financial	hole	the	Company	currently	finds	itself	in.	As	of	Q2	2015,	the	current
annual	run	rate	of	the	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	business	is	$22mm.	Even	if	a	generous
contribution	margin	of	30%	is	assumed,	Boingo	would	have	to	increase	its	Wholesale	Wi-
Fi	revenue	by	over	$80mm	($25-28mm	of	projected	net	losses	in	FY	2015	divided	by
30%)	just	to	reach	breakeven	on	a	net	income	basis.	This	means	that	Wholesale	Wi-Fi
revenue	would	have	to	increase	over	4x	for	the	Company	to	entirely	erase	its	current
projected	net	loss	of	$25-28mm.	Of	course,	in	order	to	justify	the	current	share	price	of
$9.07,	Boingo	will	need	to	report	significantly	positive	net	income	at	some	point.	Operating
at	breakeven	will	not	be	enough.	Thus,	even	if	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	revenue	grows	around	4x,
the	Company	will	still	be	significantly	overvalued.
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 18/24


Based	on	the	above	analysis,	I	believe	it	is	reasonable	to	conclude	that	the	Wholesale	Wi-
Fi	segment	will	not	generate	enough	growth	to	make	Boingo	profitable.	That	being	said,
before	moving	onto	the	next	section,	I	believe	it	is	still	worth	discussing	its	recent	deal	to
provide	Sprint	(NYSE:S)	with	Wi-Fi	offloading	service	at	35	major	US	airport	locations.
Over	the	next	few	years,	Wi-Fi	offloading	is	expected	to	drive	a	large	portion	of	the	growth
in	Boingo's	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	segment.	Many	investors	and	research	analysts	believe	that
the	Company's	offloading	deal	with	Sprint	will	soon	lead	to	additional	offloading	deals	with
tier	1	carriers	like	Verizon	(NYSE:VZ)	and	AT&T	(NYSE:T).	Based	on	my	research,	I
believe	that	this	is	a	misguided	assumption.	In	a	recent	article	published	by
FierceWireless,	an	industry	analyst	stated	the	following:


"Wi-Fi	offloading	is	"not	really	where	the	[wireless]	operators	want	to	be,"	said	Mark
Lowenstein,	an	industry	analyst...	Lowenstein	said	wireless	carriers'	business
models	are	completely	geared	toward	encouraging	users	to	buy	larger	and	larger
buckets	of	cellular	data.	Thus,	there's	little	reason	for	them	to	embrace	Wi-Fi
offloading	since	it	generally	gives	users	more	data	that	they	don't	have	to	pay	extra
for...	those	operators	that	have	made	use	of	Wi-Fi	-	Sprint	and	T-Mobile	US	-	have
done	so	to	either	improve	their	coverage	or	to	ease	the	strain	on	their	cellular
network."


As	stated	above,	the	inherent	problem	with	Wi-Fi	offloading	is	that	it	presents	a	conflict	of
interest	to	the	telecom	carriers.	Telecom	carriers'	business	models	are	dependent	on
charging	their	users	cellular	data	usage	fees.	Thus,	it	makes	little	sense	for	them	to
cannibalize	their	business	by	embracing	Wi-Fi	offloading.	For	this	reason,	it	is	likely	that
carriers	will	continue	to	only	use	Wi-Fi	offloading	in	select	situations	where	a	quick
improvement	in	coverage	is	needed.	For	example,	Boingo's	recent	deal	with	Sprint
appears	to	have	been	driven	by	necessity,	rather	than	a	positive	change	in	attitude	toward
offloading.	I	arrived	at	this	conclusion	based	on	a	recent	study	of	the	best	mobile	service
providers	at	US	airports	conducted	by	testing	firm	Root	Metrics.	A	PC	Magazine	article
dated	July	23	had	the	following	to	say	about	the	study's	findings:


"Verizon	Wireless	has	the	best	mobile	service	at	U.S.	airports...	Verizon	leads	on
speed,	followed	by	T-Mobile	and	then	AT&T,	with	Sprint	dragging	way	behind..."


According	to	this	study,	Sprint	has	the	worst	overall	mobile	service	at	US	airports	by	a
considerable	margin.	This	goes	a	long	way	toward	explaining	why	it	chose	to	sign	a	Wi-Fi
offloading	agreement	with	Boingo.	By	doing	so,	Sprint	was	able	to	quickly	address	a



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/S

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VZ

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/T

https://www.dropbox.com/s/ui0yuw1z8n3oo2n/Sprint%2C%20Google%2C%20Microsoft%2C%20Huawei%2C%20TWC%20and%20others%20tap%20into%20aggregated%20Wi-Fi%20-%20but%20revenues%20remain%20lethargic%20-%20FierceWirelessTech.pdf?dl=0

http://uk.pcmag.com/news/69831/new-report-shows-the-fastest-airport-networks
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 19/24


serious	deficiency	in	its	network	coverage.	On	the	other	hand,	according	to	this	study,
both	Verizon	and	AT&T	appear	to	have	sufficient	cellular	coverage	at	airports,	and	would
not	gain	much	from	offloading	at	this	time.	Thus,	although	the	recent	offloading	deal	with
Sprint	is	a	positive,	I	do	not	believe	that	other	large	carriers	like	Verizon	and	AT&T	will
follow	suit	anytime	soon.	To	conclude	this	section,	I	will	leave	you	with	some	recent
comments	provided	by	David	Hagan,	Boingo's	CEO,	during	the	Company's	recent	Q2
2015	earnings	call.	In	his	comments,	Mr.	Hagan	cautions	investors	to	temper	their
expectations	in	regards	to	future	offloading	deals:


"So	I	would	just	caution	everyone	while	we're	very	excited	and	very	bullish,	on
carrier	offload	this	is	still	early	stages	of	getting	number	two,	number	three,	et	cetera
into	the	market...	the	big	driver	is	frankly	that	the	carriers	having	the	business
strategy	like	Sprint	yet	to	want	to	go	down	that	path.	So	we	think	it'll	come	but	we
can't	commit	a	timeline	at	this	point."


Flawed	Analysis	Has	Led	to	Overly	Bullish	Analyst	Price	Targets


Overall,	research	analysts	are	very	bullish	on	Boingo's	future	prospects.	At	the	moment,
as	per	Yahoo	Finance,	the	consensus	analyst	price	target	for	the	shares	is	$12.65.	This	is
39%	higher	than	the	current	share	price	of	$9.07.	The	aggressive	price	targets	of	analysts
is	the	result	of	a	couple	of	things.	First,	they	are	generally	more	bullish	about	Boingo's
business	than	I	am.	For	example,	in	the	analyst	reports	that	I	have	read,	there	is	no
mention	of	how	management's	DAS	strategy	has	placed	the	Company	in	a	very
precarious	financial	position.	These	analysts	do	not	seem	to	realize	just	how	unprofitable
Boingo's	DAS	contracts	are	and	how	poor	its	FCF	would	be	without	the	short-term	cash
infusions	from	DAS	buildouts.


The	second	factor	that	has	contributed	to	their	inflated	price	targets	is	their	flawed
valuation	methods.	As	I	have	established,	I	believe	EBITDA	is	a	misguided	metric	which
overstates	the	actual	performance	of	Boingo's	business.	Some	analysts	seem	to	disagree
with	my	assessment	and	are	using	EBITDA	as	a	basis	for	their	valuations.	As	a	result,
based	on	an	EBITDA	valuation,	some	analysts	believe	Boingo's	stock	is	cheap.	For
example,	in	a	recent	William	Blair	research	report	dated	June	9th,	the	following	is	stated:


"Boingo	trades	at	a	TEV-to-EBITDA	multiple	of	7.7	times	our	2016	estimate.	We
believe	the	valuation	is	attractive	given	the	growth	in	the	company's	wholesale
Wi-Fi,	DAS,	and	military	segments.	Accordingly,	we	reiterate	our	Outperform	rating."



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3413046-boingo-wireless-wifi-ceo-david-hagan-on-q2-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 20/24


Besides	using	EBITDA	as	a	valuation	metric,	there	are	some	analysts	who	are	simply
modeling	the	business	with	incorrect	assumptions.	For	example,	provided	below	is	Credit
Suisse's	DCF-based	valuation	of	Boingo	from	their	May	8th	research	report:


Based	on	a	WACC	of	13%	and	FCF	perpetuity	growth	of	3%,	Credit	Suisse	calculated	a
$9	DCF-based	price	target	for	Boingo.	The	problem	with	the	$9	price	target	is	that	it
appears	to	be	based	on	faulty	assumptions.	In	the	DCF	analysis	provided	above,	I	have
drawn	a	red	box	around	Credit	Suisse's	capex	projections.	I	have	highlighted	their	capex
projections,	because	these	projections	are	simply	much	too	low.	For	example,	consider
the	following	statements	from	Boingo's	Q2	2015	10Q:


"Our	capital	expenditures	in	the	six	months	ended	June	30,	2015	were	$33.3	million,
of	which	$9.3	million	will	be	reimbursed	through	revenue	for	DAS	build-out	projects
from	our	telecom	operators...	We	expect	our	capital	expenditures	for	the	remainder
of	2015	will	range	from	$20	million	to	$30	million,	excluding	capital	expenditures	for
DAS	build-out	projects	which	are	reimbursed	through	revenue	from	our	telecom
operator	customers."



http://yahoo.brand.edgar-online.com/displayfilinginfo.aspx?FilingID=10852873-815-150651&type=sect&TabIndex=2&dcn=0001104659-15-058163&nav=1&src=Yahoo

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/8/17/9036121-14398297158896112-Jay-Yoon_origin.png
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 21/24


Through	the	first	six	months	of	FY	2015,	the	Company	has	spent	a	total	of	$33.3mm	of
capex,	consisting	of	$9.3mm	of	DAS	buildout	capex	and	$24.0mm	of	non-DAS	capex.	For
the	rest	of	the	year,	Boingo	expects	to	spend	another	$20-30mm	on	non-DAS	capex.	The
Company	does	not	provide	a	projection	for	additional	DAS	buildout	capex.	Adding	it	all	up,
assuming	an	additional	$9mm	in	DAS	buildout	capex	in	2H	2015,	the	Company	will	spend
a	total	of	around	$62-72mm	in	capex	($33.3mm	in	1H'15	+	$20-30mm	additional	non-DAS
capex	+	$9mm	additional	DAS	capex).	In	the	Credit	Suisse	DCF	model	above,	projected
FY	2015	capex	is	only	$38mm.	This	is	only	$5mm	higher	than	the	YTD	capex,	and	is
significantly	lower	than	the	$62-72mm	that	is	projected	for	this	year.	Credit	Suisse's	capex
projections	beyond	FY	2015	also	appear	to	be	understated	by	a	significant	amount.	From
FY	2016	to	FY	2020,	capex	ranges	from	between	$25-29mm	in	Credit	Suisse's	DCF
model.	Although	capex	in	FY	2015	is	somewhat	elevated	due	to	$25mm	spent	on	the
Military	Wi-Fi	network	deployment,	excluding	this	$25mm,	capex	for	Boingo's	remaining
businesses	still	totaled	around	$40mm.	Thus,	I	believe	that	an	average	of	$40mm	in
capex	is	a	more	reasonable	assumption	going	forward.	Putting	it	all	together,	I	have
provided	below	my	revised	DCF	valuation	based	on	Credit	Suisse's	projections.	The	only
change	I	have	made	is	increasing	Credit	Suisse's	capex	projections	to	a	more	reasonable
level.


As	shown	above,	if	Credit	Suisse	had	used	more	reasonable	capex	assumptions,
their	price	target	would	have	been	much	lower,	at	just	$5.30	per	share.	This	is	over
40%	lower	than	the	$9	price	target	given	in	their	report.	Thus,	from	these	examples,	it
is	clear	that	investors	should	not	rely	on	analyst	price	targets,	given	that	these	targets	are
often	based	on	flawed	and	faulty	analysis.
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 22/24


Valuation


So	what	is	an	appropriate	value	for	Boingo	shares?	As	I	just	demonstrated	in	the	prior
section,	using	more	reasonable	capex	projections,	Credit	Suisse's	price	target	in	their	May
8th	report	would	have	been	around	$5.30	per	share.	However,	I	believe	that	even	a	$5.30
price	target	is	too	high,	given	the	very	difficult	financial	and	competitive	position	that	the
Company	is	in.	In	the	Credit	Suisse	model,	FCF	is	projected	to	increase	steadily	year	after
year.	I	do	not	believe	that	this	is	a	reasonable	assumption,	given	that,	excluding	DAS
buildout	cash	infusions,	the	Company's	annualized	YTD	FCF	would	have	been	a	loss	of
over	$75mm.	The	Company's	DAS	buildouts	can	only	plug	this	huge	shortfall	in	cash	flow
for	so	long.	Eventually,	signing	unprofitable	long-term	contracts	has	to	catch	up	with	the
Company.	In	my	opinion,	it	is	only	a	matter	of	time	before	Boingo	runs	into	serious	liquidity
problems.	As	a	result,	I	believe	that	Boingo	should	be	valued	for	what	it	is	-	a	financially
distressed	business	operating	in	very	challenging	and	competitive	business	segments.


I	believe	that	a	good	valuation	comparable	for	Boingo	is	iPass	(NASDAQ:IPAS),	another
publicly	traded	provider	of	Wi-Fi	hotspot	services	to	both	carriers	and	retail	customers.
Like	Boingo,	iPass	has	been	struggling	financially,	and	is	currently	unprofitable	due	to
difficult	market	conditions.	At	the	moment,	iPass	trades	at	an	EV	/	Revenue	multiple	of
0.57x.	It	could	be	argued	that	Boingo	deserves	a	premium	multiple	to	iPass,	given	its
larger	scale.	However,	this	scale	advantage	is	offset	by	Boingo's	highly	questionable	DAS
strategy,	which	has	saddled	the	Company	with	unprofitable,	long-term	contracts.	Thus,	I
believe	that	Boingo	should	trade	at	a	valuation	multiple	in	line	with	iPass.	Applying	a	0.57x
multiple	to	projected	FY	2015	revenue	of	~$140mm	results	in	an	implied	enterprise
valuation	of	$79.8mm.	Adding	net	cash	of	$7.5mm	results	in	an	implied	equity	valuation	of
$87.3mm.	Thus,	assuming	38.3mm	fully	diluted	shares	outstanding,	I	believe	the	fair
value	for	Boingo	shares	to	be	approximately	$2.28	per	share.	This	represents	a	75%
discount	to	the	current	share	price	of	$9.07	as	of	market	close	on	August	14.


Future	Catalysts	For	Stock	Price	Depreciation


I	believe	it	is	likely	that	Boingo	will	experience	liquidity	issues	within	the	next	12	months	or
so.	In	FY	2013	and	FY	2014,	the	Company	generated	a	combined	cumulative	FCF	loss	of
$58.5mm.	In	the	first	six	months	of	FY	2015,	it	managed	to	generate	slightly	positive	FCF
of	$1.5mm,	due	to	large	cash	infusions	from	DAS	buildouts.	As	mentioned	previously,
excluding	these	cash	infusions,	the	Company's	FCF	would	have	been	a	loss	of	over
$75mm.	However,	even	if	these	large	upfront	cash	infusions	are	included,	Boingo's	FCF
would	have	still	been	deeply	negative	if	the	Company	had	not	deferred	over	$21mm	of



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/IPAS
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 23/24


capex	payments	during	the	first	six	months	of	FY	2015.	In	Boingo's	Q2	2015	10Q	cash
flow	statement,	the	following	information	is	provided	in	the	supplemental	disclosures
section:


Based	on	the	information	provided	above,	in	the	first	half	of	FY	2015,	it	deferred	$21.1mm
of	capex	payments.	This	future	cash	liability	was	allocated	to	accounts	payable,	accrued
expenses	and	other	liabilities	on	Boingo's	balance	sheet.	In	other	words,	including	the
$21.1mm	of	deferred	capex	payments,	the	Company's	YTD	capex	would	have	actually
been	$54.4mm	($33.3mm	cash	capex	+	$21.1mm	deferred	capex).	If	this	additional
$21.1mm	in	deferred	capex	is	included,	the	FCF	in	1H	FY	2015	would	have	been	a	loss	of
almost	$20mm.	Based	on	this	adjusted	cash	burn	rate,	and	considering	that	the	Company
has	~$36mm	remaining	under	its	revolving	credit	facility,	I	believe	it	is	likely	that	Boingo
will	need	to	raise	capital	within	the	next	12	months.	A	secondary	offering	would	appear	to
be	the	most	likely	form	of	financing,	given	the	Company's	poor	FCF	generation	and
existing	leverage.	Thus,	I	believe	that	future	dilution	via	a	secondary	offering	is	likely,	and
could	be	the	catalyst	for	Boingo	shares	to	begin	a	significant	downward	move	toward	my
target	price.


My	Interaction	With	Investor	Relations


I	would	like	to	quickly	note	that	I	reached	out	to	Boingo's	Investor	Relations	team	last
week.	I	asked	them	to	provide	justifications	for	their	current	financial	reporting	methods
and	unprofitable	DAS	strategy.	As	of	now,	I	have	yet	to	hear	back	from	them.	I	will	provide
an	update	in	the	comments	section	if	I	receive	any	relevant	new	information	from	the
Company.


Conclusion


Based	on	the	above	analysis,	Boingo	is	in	a	very	difficult	financial	position.	I	believe	that
sooner	or	later,	the	Company	will	run	into	a	liquidity	crisis	and	will	have	to	raise	a	large
amount	of	capital	to	sustain	the	business.	As	discussed,	the	main	problem	with	Boingo	is
its	long-term	DAS	deals,	which	provide	an	initial	cash	injection,	but	are	unprofitable	on	a
long-term	basis.	Given	that	the	average	DAS	contract	length	is	around	10	years,	this	has
created	a	long-term	liability	that	will	weigh	down	the	Company's	performance	for	many
years.	On	top	of	this,	its	high	margin	Retail	Wi-Fi	business	has	been	diminishing	fairly
7/18/2019 Boingo Wireless: Strong Sell Due To Deteriorating Profitability And Looming Liquidity Issues - Boingo Wireless, Inc. (NASDAQ:WIFI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3446286-boingo-wireless-strong-sell-due-deteriorating-profitability-looming-liquidity-issues 24/24


quickly.	While	the	Military	and	Wholesale	Wi-Fi	segments	will	most	likely	grow	over	the
next	couple	years,	this	will	not	be	enough	to	offset	the	negative	impact	of	the	DAS	and
Retail	segments.	As	a	result	of	all	of	these	factors,	I	believe	that	the	future	of	the
Company	is	highly	uncertain,	and	that	the	current	stock	price	does	not	accurately	reflect
this	uncertainty.	Thus,	I	recommend	shorting	Boingo	or	selling	shares	if	you	are	an
existing	shareholder.


Disclosure:	I	am/we	are	short	WIFI.	I	wrote	this	article	myself,	and	it	expresses	my	own	opinions.	I	am	not	receiving
compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	I	have	no	business	relationship	with	any	company	whose	stock	is
mentioned	in	this	article.


Editor's	Note:	This	article	covers	one	or	more	microcap	stocks.	Please	be	aware	of	the
risks	associated	with	these	stocks.


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


