7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 1/16


Short	Ideas 	|	 Tech	 	|	 Israel


TowerJazz:	A	Deeper	Analysis	Of	Management's	Troubling	Behavior
Feb.	18,	2015	8:25	AM	ET47	comments
by:	Jay	Yoon


Summary


Since	Russell	Ellwanger	took	over	as	CEO,	TSEM’s	management	team	has
continuously	enriched	themselves	with	an	excessive	amount	of	options	at	the
expense	of	shareholders.


The	Company	appears	to	be	using	various	techniques	to	minimize	the	exercise	price
of	its	options,	as	well	as	timing	grants	to	coincide	with	key	business	events.


Management	has	also	received	large	pay	increases	despite	poor	business
performance.	In	less	than	ten	years,	total	cash	compensation	to	management	has
increased	over	4x.


Due	to	the	questionable	actions	of	the	board	and	the	more	lenient	nature	of	certain
Israeli	securities	laws,	it	is	unlikely	that	management	will	change	their	behavior	in	the
future.


The	strange	relationship	between	Israel	Corp./Kenon	Holdings	and	TSEM	is	another
point	of	serious	concern.


For	an	investor,	the	importance	of	a	strong	management	team	that	is	focused	on	creating
shareholder	value	cannot	be	understated.	If	a	company's	management	team	is	lacking	in
capability	or	integrity,	then	there	is	no	reason	to	invest.	Some	foreign	countries	have	much
weaker	shareholder	protection	laws	than	those	found	in	the	US.	As	a	result,	investors
should	be	especially	diligent	in	analyzing	the	management	before	purchasing	stock	in	a
foreign	business.	Failing	to	do	so	can	eventually	lead	to	catastrophic	losses.	Investors
who	lost	money	in	the	accounting	scandals	which	rocked	various	US-listed	Chinese
companies	are	well	aware	of	this	fact.


As	an	Israel-based	business,	TowerJazz	(NASDAQ:TSEM)	is	governed	by	many	of	the
Israeli	securities	laws.	In	certain	areas,	particularly	relating	to	management	compensation,
Israeli	securities	laws	are	weaker	than	the	US	in	terms	of	protecting	shareholder	rights.	If
TSEM	management	had	a	history	of	acting	in	a	shareholder	friendly	manner,	then	this
would	likely	not	be	a	big	issue.	Unfortunately,	as	I	touched	upon	in	my	prior	articles	on



https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/short-ideas

https://seekingalpha.com/stock-ideas/technology

https://seekingalpha.com/market-outlook/global-investing/analysis/Israel

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TSEM
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 2/16


TSEM	(here	and	here),	the	Company's	management	team	appears	to	have	little	interest	in
creating	shareholder	value.	In	fact,	over	the	past	few	days,	I	discovered	that	TSEM
management's	history	of	irresponsible	behavior	runs	deeper	than	I	originally	thought.
Year-after-year,	TSEM's	management	has	taken	every	opportunity	to	line	their	own
pockets	at	the	expense	of	shareholders.	This	includes	receiving	undeserved	pay
increases,	receiving	bonuses	without	shareholder	approval,	issuing	massive	amounts	of
options,	repricing	options,	timing	options,	etc.	The	list	goes	on	and	on.	To	make	matters
worse,	it	appears	that	TSEM's	board	is	a	willing	enabler	and	participant	in	these	actions.
In	addition	to	questionable	actions	by	management	and	the	board,	for	reasons	which	I	will
explain	in	the	article,	the	Company's	strange	relationship	with	Israel	Corp./Kenon	Holdings
is	another	point	of	concern	for	shareholders.	Due	to	these	additional	issues	which	I	have
uncovered	over	the	past	few	days,	I	would	not	hold	TSEM	at	any	price.


TSEM's	Highly	Questionable	Option	Granting	Practices


In	my	previous	articles	on	TSEM,	my	discussion	of	management	was	primarily	focused	on
the	questionable	actions	of	CEO	Russell	Ellwanger.	After	conducting	further	diligence	on
the	Company,	I	discovered	that	Mr.	Ellwanger's	irresponsible	behavior	extended	to	the
entire	senior	management	team.	Since	Mr.	Ellwanger	became	CEO	in	FY	2005,	TSEM's
management	has	continuously	received	an	egregious	amount	of	option	grants	year-after-
year.	Provide	below	is	a	table	which	outlines	the	total	amount	of	options	granted	by	the
Company	from	FY	2002	to	FY	2013.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2876476-towerjazz-fair-value-of-5-per-share

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2899256-tower-semiconductor-the-empty-bullishness-of-ascendiant-capital
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 3/16


As	shown	above,	ever	since	Mr.	Ellwanger	became	CEO,	the	amount	of	options	that
the	Company	has	granted	has	skyrocketed.	In	the	three	years	immediately	prior	to	his
appointment	as	CEO,	the	Company	issued	a	combined	total	of	8.4mm	options	(from	FY
2002	to	FY	2004).	By	contrast,	in	the	first	three	years	after	Mr.	Ellwanger	took	charge,
TSEM	issued	a	combined	total	of	31.5mm	options	(from	FY	2005	to	FY	2007).	This
represented	an	amount	almost	four	times	greater	than	the	amount	of	options	issued	from
FY	2002	to	FY	2004.	This	is	not	just	a	temporary	blip	either.	The	Company	has
consistently	issued	a	massive	amount	of	options	since	FY	2005.	The	amount	of	options
granted	in	FY	2006,	FY	2009	and	FY	2013	were	especially	egregious	and
represented	17.3%,	14.7%	and	11.3%	of	the	outstanding	shares,	respectively.	I	have
highlighted	and	drawn	a	box	around	these	years	in	the	table	above	for	emphasis.	The
amount	of	options	that	the	Company	has	issued	over	the	years	is	simply	astonishing.	For
comparison	purposes,	Teva	Pharmaceutical	(NYSE:TEVA),	a	well-known	Israeli-based
company	with	a	$48Bn	market	cap,	only	granted	a	total	of	~6.9mm	options	in	FY	2014	to
all	of	its	employees.	This	represented	less	than	1%	of	its	current	shares	outstanding.	As
another	example,	Taiwan	Semiconductor	(NYSE:TSM)	issued	a	total	of	17mm	options	in
FY	2013,	which	represented	less	than	0.1%	of	its	total	outstanding	Taiwanese
denominated	shares.	It	is	also	worth	considering	that	both	TEVA	and	TSM	have	both	more
than	doubled	in	share	price	over	the	past	ten	years.	Thus,	I	am	puzzled	as	to	why
management	considers	granting	millions	of	options	almost	every	year	as	standard
practice.	I	have	never	seen	a	company,	particularly	one	that	has	performed	as	poorly	as
TSEM,	grant	options	in	such	a	careless	fashion.


Perhaps	even	more	troubling	than	the	massive	amount	of	options	issued	is	the	fact	that
TSEM	appears	to	be	utilizing	a	variety	of	techniques	to	grant	the	options	at	very	low
exercise	prices.	For	example,	the	Company	has	a	tendency	to	grant	the	largest	amount
of	options	in	years	in	which	the	stock	price	has	declined	by	a	significant	amount	relative	to
prior	years.	I	have	provided	below	a	stock	price	chart	which	clearly	illustrates	this	point.
Note	that	the	below	chart	is	pro	forma	for	the	15-to-1	reverse	stock	split	completed	in
August	2012.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TEVA

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TSM
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 4/16


The	Company's	three	largest	option	grants	were	approved	in	FY	2006,	FY	2009	and	FY
2013.	As	can	be	seen	in	the	above	chart,	these	large	option	grants	were	issued	in	years
where	the	stock	price	had	declined	substantially	relative	to	prior	years.	Furthermore,	the
Company's	two	largest	options	grants	(June	2009	&	September	2013)	occurred	at	a	time
where	the	stock	was	trading	near	all-time	lows.	In	June	2009,	the	Company	issued
29.3mm	shares	at	an	exercise	price	of	just	$0.29	per	share.	In	September	2013,	the
Company	issued	5.4mm	shares	(equivalent	to	81.0mm	shares	prior	to	reverse	split)	at	an
exercise	price	of	just	$4.54	per	share	(equivalent	to	$0.30	per	share	prior	to	reverse	split).
Thus,	from	this	data,	it	appears	that	management	is	timing	their	largest	options	grants	to
take	advantage	of	low	stock	prices.	By	doing	so,	management	is	able	to	receive	options	at
extremely	low	exercise	prices.	This	type	of	behavior	is	very	irresponsible	and	destroys
shareholder	value.


Unfortunately,	management's	clever	tactics	do	not	end	there.	In	addition	to	selectively
issuing	unusually	large	amounts	of	options	in	years	of	low	stock	prices,	the	Company	is
also	changing	the	dates	in	which	options	are	granted	within	a	given	year.	For	example,	as
shown	in	the	stock	price	chart	provided	above,	options	granted	in	FY	2006,	FY	2009	and
FY	2013	were	all	issued	in	different	months.	This	is	highly	unusual.	Typically,	publicly-
traded	companies	have	a	set	schedule	for	issuing	options	every	year,	except	for	special
situations	like	issuing	incentive	options	for	new	employees.	It	appears	that	TSEM	is
employing	this	technique	in	order	to	reduce	the	exercise	price	at	which	options	are	issued
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 5/16


within	a	given	year.	For	example,	in	FY	2013,	TSEM's	stock	price	traded	within	a	range	of
$3.86	to	$8.55	per	share.	Conveniently,	management's	FY	2013	option	grants	were
approved	in	September	2013	when	the	stock	price	was	trading	near	its	yearly	low.	As	a
result,	these	options	were	issued	at	an	exercise	price	of	just	$4.54	per	share	(equivalent
to	$0.30	per	share	prior	to	reverse	split).	As	another	example,	in	FY	2009,	management's
options	were	approved	on	June	2009	at	an	average	exercise	price	of	just	$0.29.	During
this	year,	TSEM's	stock	price	traded	in	a	range	of	$0.15	to	$1.34	per	share.	Thus,	once
again,	the	approval	of	management's	options	came	at	a	time	when	the	stock	price	was
trading	near	its	yearly	low.	Based	on	this	information,	it	appears	that	management	is
changing	the	date	of	its	grants	in	an	effort	to	issue	options	at	the	lowest	possible	exercise
price.


The	timings	of	TSEM's	largest	option	grants	also	seem	to	occur	right	before	major	news
announcements	which	dramatically	increase	the	share	price.	For	example,	in	FY	2013,	the
Company	approved	its	option	grant	program	just	three	months	before	announcing	its	JV
with	Panasonic	on	December	20th.	Since	this	announcement,	the	stock	price	has	gone	up
over	200%.	As	another	example,	in	FY	2009,	the	overall	stock	market	had	been
increasing	at	rapid	pace	due	to	an	oversold	condition	resulting	from	the	market	crash	in
FY	2008.	At	the	same	time,	TSEM's	stock	had	crashed	with	the	market	in	FY	2008	and
was	in	the	process	of	recovering	in	FY	2009.	Thus,	I	believe	management	took	advantage
of	this	positive	market	trend	to	issue	shares	to	themselves	in	June	2009.	Also,	there	was
some	indication	of	a	pickup	in	their	business	as	evidenced	by	their	pre-announcement	of
Q3	2009	earnings	on	September	2nd,	2009.	Once	again,	these	options	were	very
profitable,	as	the	stock	price	appreciated	from	$4.35	per	share	(post-split)	to	$14.55	per
share	by	the	end	of	FY	2009.


But	wait…	there's	more!	In	addition	to	timing	the	option	grants,	the	Company	is	also
calculating	the	exercise	price	of	the	options	in	a	very	arbitrary	manner.	The	table	below
details	how	the	exercise	price	of	the	option	grants	were	calculated	in	FY	2005,	FY	2006,
FY	2009	and	FY	2013.
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 6/16


As	shown	above,	the	manner	in	which	the	Company	is	calculating	the	exercise	price	of	its
option	grants	has	changed	randomly	from	year-to-year.	I	believe	management's	reason	for
doing	this	is	similar	to	its	various	option	timing	schemes.	To	be	more	specific,	I	suspect
that	management	is	changing	the	exercise	price	calculation	in	an	effort	to	lower	the
exercise	price	of	the	option	grants.	For	example,	as	shown	in	the	table	above,	the
exercise	price	of	the	FY	2013	options	were	calculated	based	on	TSEM's	30-day	average
price	prior	to	the	approval	of	the	grant.	The	Company	approved	its	option	plan	in	early
September	2013.	TSEM's	average	share	price	in	August	2013,	July	2013	and	June	2013
was	$4.61,	$4.83	and	$5.41,	respectively.	Thus,	it	appears	that	TSEM	picked	a	relatively
short	30-day	timeframe	in	order	to	take	advantage	of	lower	stock	prices	in	early
September	and	August.	As	another	example,	in	FY	2006	the	Company	calculated	the
exercise	price	based	on	a	90-day	average	prior	to	the	approval	of	the	option	grants	in	May
2006.	In	the	90	trading	days	prior	to	the	May	2006	approval,	the	stock	price	had	traded	at
a	lower	price	level	than	on	a	30-day	or	single-day	basis.	Therefore,	it	is	likely	that	the
Company	picked	a	longer	timeframe	in	order	to	lower	the	exercise	price	of	the	options.


It	doesn't	end	there.	In	addition	to	all	of	these	option	pricing	and	timing	schemes,	the
Company	has	also	repriced	a	large	amount	of	options	for	its	management	team.	Provided
below	is	a	quote	from	TSEM's	FY	2006	20F.


In	May	2006,	our	board	of	directors	approved	a	plan	to	offer	each	of	our	current
employees,	including	senior	management,	the	opportunity	to	exchange	their	existing
options	to	purchase	our	ordinary	shares	for	new	options	with	an	exercise	price	of
$1.45,	which	is	the	average	closing	price	of	our	shares	on	the	NASDAQ	during	the
90	consecutive	trading	days	prior	to	the	board	of	directors'	approval	in	May	2006.


In	FY	2006,	the	Company	repriced	the	existing	options	of	all	of	its	current	employees,
including	senior	management.	The	total	amount	of	options	that	were	eventually	repriced
was	around	12mm.	This	is	highly	unusual	behavior.	Companies	typically	do	not	reprice
such	a	large	amount	of	options.	It	is	even	more	unusual	considering	that	TSEM's	share
price	had	declined	by	over	50%	from	FY	2004	to	FY	2006.


The	final	thing	that	I	will	touch	upon	in	regards	to	TSEM's	option	grants	is	the	anti-dilution
provision	attached	to	Mr.	Ellwanger's	options.	I	discussed	this	in	my	prior	article	on	TSEM,
but	I	feel	it	is	worth	discussing	again	in	the	context	of	this	article.	Provided	below	is	a
quote	from	the	Company's	FY	2006F	regarding	additional	anti-dilutive	options	that	were
issued	to	Mr.	Ellwanger.



http://secfilings.nasdaq.com/filingFrameset.asp?FileName=0001178913-07-001236%2Etxt&FilePath=%5C2007%5C06%5C25%5C&CoName=TOWER+SEMICONDUCTOR+LTD&FormType=20-F&RcvdDate=6%2F25%2F2007&pdf=
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 7/16


…As	of	May	31,	2007,	due	to	dilutive	events,	approximately	an	additional	9.3	million
options	were	granted	to	our	CEO…


As	I	expressed	in	my	previous	article,	the	fact	that	Mr.	Ellwanger	has	an	anti-dilution
provision	attached	to	his	options	presents	a	troubling	conflict	of	interest.	If	the	Company
performs	poorly	and	issues	more	shares,	then	Mr.	Ellwanger	will	get	rewarded	with	more
options.	This	backwards	incentive	scheme	simply	does	not	make	any	sense,	and	I	have
never	seen	another	company	issue	options	in	such	a	manner.


So,	to	recap,	it	appears	that	TSEM's	options	program	was	designed	with	the	sole	purpose
of	maximizing	management's	profits	at	the	expense	of	shareholders.	I	have	listed	below
the	various	troubling	aspects	of	TSEM's	options	program	which	I	have	covered	in	this
section.


Overly	excessive	amounts	of	options	granted	year-after-year.
Issuing	the	largest	amount	of	options	in	years	where	the	stock	price	is	depressed.
Changing	the	date	of	option	grants	from	year-to-year	in	an	effort	to	lower	the	exercise
price.
Timing	the	option	grants	to	coincide	with	major	positive	news	announcements.
Changing	the	calculation	of	the	option	exercise	price	from	year-to-year	in	an	effort	to
lower	the	exercise	price.
Repricing	of	options	to	a	lower	exercise	price	despite	poor	business	performance.
Issuing	additional	anti-dilutive	options	to	the	CEO.


Based	on	recent	activity,	it	appears	that	TSEM	is	not	going	to	change	its	questionable
approach	to	granting	options	anytime	soon.	As	I	mentioned	previously,	in	FY	2013,	the
Company	issued	a	total	of	5.4mm	options	which	represented	over	11%	of	the	basic	shares
outstanding	and	over	5%	of	the	fully	diluted	shares	outstanding	at	the	time.	By	itself,	the
issuance	of	5.4mm	options	in	FY	2013	is	excessive	to	a	tremendous	degree.
Unfortunately	for	TSEM	shareholders,	it	appears	that	almost	5mm	of	additional
options	will	be	issued	in	the	near	future.	During	my	back	and	forth	with	investor
relations	via	email,	it	was	mentioned	that	the	Company	had	approved	the	granting	of
up	to	10mm	of	options	under	the	FY	2013	share	option	plan.	This	represented	over
20%	of	the	basic	shares	outstanding	and	almost	10%	of	the	fully	diluted	shares
outstanding	at	the	time!	This	is	a	massive	amount	of	options,	and	it	once	again
demonstrates	the	pattern	of	management's	behavior.
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 8/16


The	combined	net	result	of	TSEM's	excessive	options	issuances	at	low	exercise	prices	is
reflected	in	the	options	table	found	on	pg.	F-43	of	TSEM's	FY	2013	20-F.	I	have	provided
this	table	below.


As	shown	above,	as	of	FY	2013,	the	Company	reported	a	total	of	8.1mm	options
outstanding.	This	represents	approximately	17%	and	8%	of	the	basic	and	fully	diluted
outstanding	shares,	respectively.	As	can	also	be	seen	in	the	table	above,	7.0mm	of	the
8.1mm	options	outstanding	carry	a	very	low	exercise	price	in	the	range	of	$2.70	to	$4.95
per	share.	In	regards	to	vesting,	the	FY	2013	options	will	vest	over	a	period	of	three	years.
The	vast	majority	of	options	issued	under	plans	prior	to	FY	2013	have	already	vested.


Quite	simply,	investors	cannot	win	with	a	management	team	that	willingly	dilutes
shareholders	year-after-year	to	such	a	large	degree.	To	illustrate	my	point,	I	have	provided
a	chart	below	which	compares	the	growth	in	TSEM's	basic	share	count	versus	its	share
price	performance.


From	this	chart	it	is	clear	to	see	how	significant	dilution	has	harmed	shareholders	over	the
years.	From	FY	2003	to	today,	TSEM's	annual	revenue	has	grown	from	~$60mm	to	a	run-
rate	of	over	$900mm.	However,	due	in	large	part	to	excessive	dilution,	the	Company's
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 9/16


share	price	actually	declined	almost	90%	during	that	same	timeframe	from	$118.36	per
share	(pre-split	price	as	of	12/31/03)	to	$13.96	per	share	today	(as	of	1/13/15).	Thus,
despite	a	large	increase	in	revenue	over	the	years,	the	net	result	has	been	a	significant
loss	in	per	share	value.	I	believe	this	trend	will	likely	continue	as	the	Company	has	shown
almost	no	concern	for	managing	shareholder	dilution.


Dramatic	Growth	In	Cash	Compensation:	Another	Point	Of	Concern


Unfortunately,	the	problems	with	excessive	management	compensation	extend	beyond
the	Company's	questionable	option	granting	practices.	Since	Mr.	Ellwanger	took	over	as
CEO	in	FY	2005,	the	annual	cash	compensation	(salary,	bonus,	fees,	etc.)	paid	to	senior
executives	and	board	members	has	increased	by	a	dramatic	amount.	Provided	below	is	a
chart	which	shows	the	growth	in	cash	compensation	from	FY	2005	to	FY	2013.


As	shown	in	the	chart	above,	from	FY	2005	to	FY	2013,	total	cash	compensation	paid
to	senior	management	and	board	members	increased	over	four	times	from	$1.2mm
to	$5.3mm.	It	is	worth	noting	that,	on	a	per	employee	basis,	the	increase	in	cash
compensation	was	even	higher,	since	the	number	of	senior	management	employees
declined	from	10	in	FY	2005	to	8	in	FY	2013.	This	dramatic	increase	in	cash
compensation	is	puzzling	considering	that	the	Company's	share	price	had	declined	over
80%	from	FY	2005	to	FY	2013.	Typically,	management	salaries	decline	or	at	the	least	stay
the	same	whenever	the	business	performs	poorly.	For	some	reason,	TSEM	seems	to
believe	that	there	should	be	an	inverse	relationship	between	management	pay	and	stock
price	performance.
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 10/16


Particularly	excessive	is	Mr.	Ellwanger's	annual	cash	compensation	package.	Year-after-
year,	Mr.	Ellwanger	has	received	generous	pay	increases	despite	the	continuous	losses
that	shareholders	have	experienced.	When	Mr.	Ellwanger	took	over	as	CEO,	his	base	pay
was	around	$300K	per	year,	and	his	bonus	was	up	to	150%	of	his	base	salary.	Today,	his
compensation	package	is	much	more	generous.	Provided	below	is	a	quote	from	TSEM's
FY	2013	20F	which	outlines	certain	components	of	Mr.	Ellwanger's	compensation
package:


…(ii)	certain	amendments	to	the	employment	agreement	of	our	CEO	including	an
adjustment	to	our	CEO's	annual	base	salary	to	$680,000	from	$600,000	in
effect	as	of	January	1,	2013;	(NASDAQ:III)	a	performance-	based	bonus	matrix
for	2013	and	going	forward	to	our	CEO	that	shall	not	exceed	225%	of	our	CEO's
annual	base	salary,	as	further	set	forth	in	Tower's	proxy	statement	to	its
shareholders	filed	on	July	30,	2013…


As	described	in	the	quote	above,	Mr.	Ellwanger's	annual	base	salary	has	increased	from
around	$300K	in	FY	2005	to	$680K	in	FY	2013.	In	addition	to	this,	his	maximum	bonus
increased	to	225%	of	his	base	salary	compared	to	just	150%	of	his	base	salary	in	FY
2005.	Furthermore,	the	Company	also	pays	him	a	"social	benefit"	fee	of	over	$100K	per
year.	To	top	it	all	off,	Mr.	Ellwanger	also	receives	a	fee	of	$280K	on	an	annual	basis	for
relocating	from	the	United	States	to	Israel.	This	fee	is	paid	to	him	until	his	termination	from
the	Company.	I	am	quite	puzzled	as	to	why	Mr.	Ellwanger	continues	to	receive	a
relocation	fee	when	his	relocation	to	Israel	occurred	almost	ten	years	ago	(further	details
regarding	social	benefit	and	relocation	fee	provided	on	pg.	53	of	the	FY	2007	20F).
Overall,	Mr.	Ellwanger's	compensation	package	is	overly	generous,	and	this	does	not
even	take	into	account	the	massive	amount	of	options	that	he	has	received	over	the
years.


In	summary,	the	sharp	increase	in	management's	cash	compensation	over	the	years	does
not	make	sense,	given	the	Company's	poor	performance.	Furthermore,	Mr.	Ellwanger's
overall	compensation	package	is	extremely	generous	and	contains	numerous	perks	which
recur	year-after-year.	Overall,	this	is	yet	another	example	of	how	management	has	treated
the	Company	as	its	own	personal	ATM	machine	at	the	expense	of	shareholders.


A	Change	In	Behavior	Is	Not	Likely


It	is	unlikely	that	management	and	the	Company	will	change	their	irresponsible	behavior
for	a	variety	of	reasons.	First,	although	TSEM	is	governed	by	certain	SEC	regulations	and
NASDAQ	listing	requirements,	there	are	certain	exemptions	that	are	afforded	to	foreign



http://secfilings.nasdaq.com/filingFrameset.asp?FileName=0001178913-14-001662%2Etxt&FilePath=%5C2014%5C05%5C14%5C&CoName=TOWER+SEMICONDUCTOR+LTD&FormType=20-F&RcvdDate=5%2F14%2F2014&pdf=

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/III

http://secfilings.nasdaq.com/filingFrameset.asp?FileName=0001178913-08-001507%2Etxt&FilePath=%5C2008%5C06%5C18%5C&CoName=TOWER+SEMICONDUCTOR+LTD&FormType=20-F&RcvdDate=6%2F18%2F2008&pdf=
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 11/16


issuers.	As	an	Israel-based	business,	TSEM	is	governed	by	many	of	the	securities	laws	in
Israel.	Unfortunately	for	shareholders,	the	securities	laws	in	Israel	are	more	lax	than	those
in	the	US	in	certain	regards.	For	example,	in	regards	to	equity	compensation	and	stock
options,	NASDAQ	Listing	Rule	5635(c)	states	the	following:


Shareholder	approval	is	required	prior	to	the	issuance	of	securities	when	a	stock
option	or	purchase	plan	is	to	be	established	or	materially	amended	or	other	equity
compensation	arrangement	made	or	materially	amended,	pursuant	to	which	stock
may	be	acquired	by	officers,	directors,	employees,	or	consultants...


As	stated	in	the	quote	above,	NASDAQ	requires	shareholder	approval	before	adopting	an
equity	compensation	or	option	plan.	By	contrast,	Israeli	securities	law	does	not	require
such	approval.	Consider	the	following	quote	from	TSEM's	FY	2013	20F.


We	do	not	necessarily	seek	shareholder	approval	for	the	establishment	of,	and
amendments	to,	stock	option	or	equity	compensation	plans	(as	set	forth	in
NASDAQ	Listing	Rule	5635(c)),	as	such	matters	are	not	subject	to	shareholder
approval	under	Israeli	law.	We	will	attempt	to	seek	shareholder	approval	for	our
stock	option	or	equity	compensation	plans...	However,	even	if	such	approval	is	not
received,	then	the	stock	option	or	equity	compensation	plans	will	continue	to
be	in	effect.


In	addition	to	stock	option	grants,	Israeli	law	also	does	not	require	shareholder	approval
for	company	compensation	plans.	The	following	quote	is	from	TSEM's	FY	2013	20F.


Nonetheless,	even	if	the	shareholders	of	the	company	do	not	approve	the
compensation	policy,	the	board	of	directors	of	a	company	may	approve	the
compensation	policy,	provided	that	the	compensation	committee	and,	thereafter,
the	board	of	directors	resolved,	based	on	detailed,	documented,	reasons	and	after	a
second	review	of	the	compensation	policy,	that	the	approval	of	the	compensation
policy	is	for	the	benefit	of	the	company.


Based	on	these	examples,	it	can	be	reasonably	concluded	that	Israeli	securities	laws	do
not	provide	much	protection	for	shareholders	in	terms	of	controlling	management
compensation.	Thus,	TSEM	shareholders	are	fairly	powerless	in	terms	of	controlling	the
Company's	excessive	compensation	practices.



http://nasdaq.cchwallstreet.com/NASDAQTools/PlatformViewer.asp?selectednode=chp_1_1_4_3_8_26&manual=%2Fnasdaq%2Fmain%2Fnasdaq-equityrules%2F
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 12/16


Basically,	the	only	hope	for	TSEM	shareholders	in	regards	to	reigning	in	compensation	is
the	board	of	directors.	Unfortunately,	for	the	past	ten	plus	years,	the	Company's	board
has	shown	little	interest	in	protecting	shareholders.	As	I	discussed	at	length,
management	has	received	an	excessive	amount	of	options	and	cash	compensation	year-
after-year.	For	some	unknown	reason,	the	board	felt	that	management	deserved	such
generous	compensation	despite	the	severe	decline	in	the	Company's	stock	price.	In	fact,
in	some	cases,	the	board	has	actually	gone	out	of	its	way	to	compensate	management
despite	objections	from	shareholders.	For	example,	as	I	discussed	in	my	prior	article,	the
board	pushed	through	a	FY	2012	bonus	payment	to	Mr.	Ellwanger,	despite	failing	to
receive	approval	from	shareholders.	Such	an	act	is	highly	unusual	and	is	totally	at	odds
with	the	intended	purpose	of	a	board	of	directors.


Perhaps	the	most	concerning	aspect	about	the	board	is	that	the	Chairman	appears
to	be	an	active	participant	in	management's	behavior.	Currently,	each	board	member
receives	regular	cash	compensation	plus	an	option	package.	Overall,	I	believe	the
compensation	package	for	general	board	members	to	be	reasonable.	However,	the
Chairman	of	the	board	has	received	an	excessive	amount	of	option	grants	at	various
points	throughout	the	past	ten	years.	For	example,	in	January	2007,	the	Chairman
received	3.2mm	options,	which	at	the	time	represented	over	3%	of	the	basic	outstanding
shares.	This	is	an	extraordinary	amount	of	options	to	receive,	even	for	a	Chairman.
Surprisingly,	it	gets	much	worse.	In	June	2009,	the	Chairman	was	awarded	a	whopping
11.5mm	options	at	an	exercise	price	of	just	$0.29	per	share.	This	represented	over
7%	of	the	basic	shares	outstanding!	This	is	quite	a	shocking	amount	of	options.	Also,
the	granting	of	these	options	came	at	the	most	inopportune	time	for	shareholders.	At	the
time,	TSEM's	stock	price	was	trading	at	a	price	well	under	$1	per	share.	This	is	simply
unacceptable	behavior	from	someone	whose	job	is	to	protect	and	create	value	for
shareholders.	It	is	also	worth	noting	that	these	options	were	issued	at	the	same	time	that
the	CEO	received	an	enormous	grant	of	8.5mm	options.	Unfortunately,	this	was	not	the
end	of	it.	In	January	2014,	the	Chairman	received	620K	options	which	represented	9.3mm
shares	prior	to	the	FY	2012	reverse	split.	Given	this	consistent	pattern	of	behavior,	I	would
not	expect	the	Chairman's	actions	to	change	in	the	future.


As	can	be	seen	from	the	examples	provided	in	this	section,	the	board	appears	to	have	no
interest	in	doing	its	job.	More	specifically,	the	board	has	allowed	and	at	points	even
enabled	management	to	enrich	themselves	while	shareholders	have	suffered.	At	the	same
time,	the	Chairman	has	also	enriched	himself	through	excessive	option	grants.	Thus,	for
TSEM	shareholders,	it	appears	that	there	is	no	one	at	the	Company	who	is	looking	out	for
their	best	interests.
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 13/16


The	Curious	Relationship	Between	TSEM	And	Israel	Corp.


The	relationship	between	TSEM	and	Israel	Corp.	is	one	of	the	strangest	that	I	have	seen
between	a	major	shareholder	and	a	company.	From	1999	to	2002,	Israel	Corp.	invested	a
total	of	around	$100mm	into	the	Company.	By	2006,	Israel	Corp.'s	initial	investments	in
TSEM	had	declined	by	over	75%.	Despite	experiencing	such	heavy	losses,	Israel	Corp.
decided	to	invest	an	additional	$130mm	in	2006	and	2007.	The	Company	once	again
performed	poorly	and	these	additional	investments	declined	by	over	50%.	For	some
strange	reason,	Israel	Corp.	appeared	to	be	unfazed	by	the	significant	and	consistent
losses	its	investments	in	TSEM	had	yielded.	Israel	Corp.	continued	to	support	the
business	unconditionally	and	provided	TSEM	with	additional	cash	infusions	in	2008,	2009
and	most	recently,	in	2013.


The	continued	investments	by	Israel	Corp.	in	TSEM	despite	the	consistent	poor
performance	of	the	Company	is	puzzling.	Equally	puzzling	is	that,	it	appears	Israel	Corp.
has	actually	supported	the	excessive	compensation	packages	paid	to	management	year-
after-year.	Israel	Corp.	is	well-represented	on	TSEM's	board	with	three	representatives.	In
addition	to	this,	for	most	of	the	past	fifteen	years,	the	Chairman	of	the	board	has	been
either	a	senior	executive	or	board	member	from	Israel	Corp.	The	point	is,	Israel	Corp.	has
the	largest	voice	on	the	board	when	it	comes	to	management	compensation.	As	a	major
shareholder	that	has	lost	significant	money	on	its	investment,	it	would	stand	to	reason	that
Israel	Corp.	would	try	to	reign	in	management	compensation	as	the	business	floundered.
Instead,	Israel	Corp.	has	supported	lavish	pay	packages	for	management	year-after-year.


So,	why	does	Israel	Corp.	continue	to	throw	good	money	after	bad?	Why	do	they	keep	on
supporting	undeserved	increases	in	cash	compensation	and	lavish	option	packages	for
management?	Recent	actions	suggest	that	Israel	Corp.	may	be	trying	to	extract	a	return
from	its	investment	through	less	traditional	means.	For	example,	for	the	past	fifteen	years,
TSEM's	Chairman	has	typically	been	a	representative	from	Israel	Corp.	During	this	time,
the	Chairman	has	at	various	points	been	granted	an	enormous	amount	of	options.	Thus,
through	extravagant	option	grants,	representatives	from	Israel	Corp.	that	have	occupied
the	board	chair	have	realized	enormous	personal	financial	gains.	In	addition	to	this,	Israel
Corp.	has	also	received	an	unusual	amount	of	preferential	treatment	from	TSEM.	For
example,	in	FY	2012,	TSEM	tried	to	issue	preferred	shares	to	Israel	Corp.	with	very
generous	terms.	Ultimately,	the	preferred	share	issuance	was	cancelled,	because
regulatory	authorities	felt	that	the	terms	of	the	preferred	shares	were	harmful	to	common
shareholders.	I	have	provided	a	quote	below	from	an	article	published	by	Haaretz
describing	reasons	for	why	the	preferred	issuance	was	cancelled.



http://www.haaretz.com/business/towerjazz-nixes-plan-to-issue-preferred-shares-1.450846
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 14/16


Tower	Semiconductor	has	canceled	its	plans	to	issue	preferred	shares,	citing	legal
complications	involving	the	regulatory	authorities…	An	amendment	to	the
Companies	Law	discouraged	multiple	classes	of	stock,	allowing	preferred	shares	if
they	had	no	voting	rights	or	any	priority	on	dividends…Tower	Semiconductor
intended	to	change	the	articles	so	that	the	decision	would	rest	with	the	board
of	directors	and	not	shareholders.	It	also	asked	shareholders	to	approve
future	dividend	payments	based	on	the	number	of	shares	held	rather	than	the
value,	giving	preferred	shares	equal	rights	despite	having	one-hundredth	of
the	par	value	of	common	shares.


As	described	in	the	quote	above,	TSEM	intended	to	issue	preferred	shares	to	Israel	Corp.
that	would	have	taken	voting	power	away	from	shareholders	and	into	the	hands	of	Israel
Corp.	In	addition	to	this,	Israel	Corp.	would	have	received	dividend	payments	based	on
the	number	of	preferred	shares	held	rather	than	the	dollar	value	of	shares.	This	was
deemed	to	be	unfair	to	common	shareholders,	since	preferred	shares	have	one-hundredth
of	the	value	of	common	shares.	The	fact	that	TSEM	would	go	out	of	its	way	to	offer	such	a
generous	deal	to	Israel	Corp.	is	alarming	for	shareholders.	This	incident	also	provides
further	evidence	that	Israel	Corp.	may	be	trying	to	generate	a	return	on	its	investment
through	less	traditional	means.	Unfortunately,	these	means	appear	to	be	beneficial	for
Israel	Corp.,	but	harmful	for	other	shareholders.


Although	Israel	Corp.'s	investment	in	TSEM	was	recently	spun-off	into	Kenon	Holdings	on
January	7th,	it	is	not	likely	that	the	dynamic	of	the	relationship	will	change.	The	members
of	Kenon's	senior	management	team	are	all	affiliated	with	Israel	Corp.	and	some	of	them
have	served	as	TSEM	board	members.	Another	point	of	concern	for	TSEM	shareholders
regarding	the	spinoff	is	that	Kenon	is	a	relatively	small	entity	with	a	significant	amount	of
debt.	Thus,	Kenon	has	a	more	limited	amount	of	capital	at	its	disposal.	For	the	past	fifteen
years,	Israel	Corp.	has	served	as	a	lifeline	of	sorts	for	TSEM.	Whenever	TSEM	has
needed	an	injection	of	capital	to	keep	the	business	afloat,	Israel	Corp.	has	always	been
there	to	provide	cash.	With	the	Kenon	spinoff,	it	appears	this	lifeline	may	now	be	gone.
Thus,	it	is	unclear	whether	Kenon	will	be	able	to	financially	support	TSEM	in	the	same
manner	that	Israel	Corp.	has	in	the	past.


My	Interaction	With	Investor	Relations


I	would	like	to	note	that	I	interacted	with	TSEM's	investor	relations	department	via	email.	I
specifically	asked	them	why	the	Company	felt	that	paying	such	lucrative	pay	and	options
packages	to	management	was	appropriate.	Their	response	was	that	they	felt	their
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 15/16


compensation	was	in	line	with	the	industry.	As	I	have	shown	in	this	article,	I	do	not	believe
this	assertion	holds	much	weight.


Conclusion


TSEM	is	one	of	those	rare	companies	where	the	more	one	digs,	the	worse	it	looks.	The
degree	to	which	management	and	the	board	have	taken	advantage	of	shareholders	is
simply	appalling.	They	have	basically	treated	the	Company	as	their	own	personal	ATM
machine,	while	the	business	has	floundered.	In	my	first	article	on	TSEM,	I	stated	that	fair
value	for	the	Company's	shares	was	$5.	However,	given	the	irresponsible	behavior	of
management	and	the	board,	as	well	as	my	concerns	over	the	motivations	of	Israel
Corp./Kenon,	I	would	not	hold	TSEM	shares	at	any	price.	Thus,	I	reiterate	my
recommendation	to	short	TSEM	or	sell	shares	if	you	are	an	existing	shareholder.


Disclosure:	The	author	is	short	TSEM.	The	author	wrote	this	article	themselves,	and	it	expresses	their	own	opinions.
The	author	is	not	receiving	compensation	for	it	(other	than	from	Seeking	Alpha).	The	author	has	no	business	relationship
with	any	company	whose	stock	is	mentioned	in	this	article.
7/18/2019 TowerJazz: A Deeper Analysis Of Management's Troubling Behavior - Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (NASDAQ:TSEM) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2926056-towerjazz-a-deeper-analysis-of-managements-troubling-behavior 16/16


JOIN	THE	CONVERSATION


