5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 1/67


EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue
Apr. 30, 2014 1:16 PM ET189 comments
by: Gravity Research


Summary


CMS will reimburse EXAS 70-80% less for Cologuard than EXAS has told investors.
This will leave EXAS with negative gross margins-- making Cologuard unsellable.


EXAS' projected ~$500 reimbursement rate relies on CMS using a crosswalk
analysis that calculates reimbursement based on cost of the components of the test.


Instead, CMS will use a gap-fill process relying on cost-effectiveness data. Our
model shows reimbursement of $100-$150/test, and CMS publications show that a
test dominating Cologuard was cost-effective at $179-$247/test.


Visit gravityresearchgroup.com/reports to download a PDF version of the full report and
accompanying appendix


Exact Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) is an extremely timely and compelling
short, with an imminent catalyst that we believe will cause shares to plummet as much as
75% in the near future. EXAS has one product in its pipeline, Cologuard, which is a non-
invasive test for colorectal cancer that requires patients to deposit fecal matter into a jar,
administer a preservative to the feces, and ship the jar to EXAS' laboratory, where EXAS
evaluates the feces and diagnoses for colorectal cancer ("CRC"). Cologuard combines an
existing non-invasive test, the fecal immunochemical test ("FIT"), with additional tests for
DNA markers to increase sensitivity  to cancer and large polyps at the cost of specificity .
In our discussions with investors, we have found that the consensus is that the current
bear thesis for EXAS is predicated on a failure for EXAS in marketing Cologuard (similar
to its predecessors, PreGen-Plus and ColoSure), while bulls believe Cologuard will
achieve substantial market penetration. While we are very skeptical of Cologuard's
marketability, we view that as immaterial to our thesis and already well-covered by others,
and we will refrain from making it a focal point of this report. We have no doubt that
Cologuard will be approved by the FDA. However, we also believe that investors will soon
find that FDA approval is a meaningless victory.


Soon after the FDA decision (potentially even the same day), the Centers for
Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") will announce its preliminary National
Coverage Determination ("NCD") for Cologuard. We believe the eventual CMS


1 2



http://gravityresearchgroup.com/reports

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EXAS
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 2/67


national reimbursement limit for Cologuard will be below EXAS' gross cost per test
- effectively making Cologuard unsellable for EXAS. Based on extensive diligence and
consultations with industry experts (including a former senior CMS employee), we are
confident that CMS and its Medicare Administrative Contractors ("MACs") will establish a
reimbursement rate for Cologuard that is at least 70-80% lower than the ~$500 rate EXAS
has projected to investors due to CMS using a gap-fill process to price the test, rather than
the crosswalk analysis EXAS has repeatedly claimed will be used. We spoke with EXAS
Management and IR regarding this. We also think there is a meaningful probability that
CMS may simply decide to issue a negative NCD and refuse to cover Cologuard, as CMS
did in 2009 with the CT colonography ("CTC") when it became clear that while CT
colonographies were capable of diagnosing cancer and allowing physicians to detect
polyps, they were far from being cost-effective at the reimbursement prices required to
make the test economical for practitioners.


There are two methods for CMS to determine reimbursement rates for diagnostic
laboratory tests: crosswalk analysis and gap-fill. A crosswalk analysis is a cost-stacking
approach where CMS adds up the reimbursements for the various components of a
procedure/test to arrive at a reimbursement rate for the procedure/test. Crosswalk
analyses are intended for procedures/tests that represent logical combinations of pre-
approved procedures/tests that are already in use. The gap-fill process involves assigning
a new test code and allowing MACs to establish carrier-specific reimbursement rates for
the first year of coverage. Gap-fill reimbursement rates depend heavily on cost-
effectiveness data, when it is available, and FITs serve as an excellent and relevant
precedent for Cologuard.


In 2003, CMS evaluated FITs after Enterix (a pioneer in the FIT space) requested
reimbursement from CMS of $28 per FIT. CMS priced FITs using the gap-fill process, and
commissioned a cost-effectiveness study from the Agency for Healthcare Research and
Quality ("AHRQ", an HHS subsidiary), yielding a range of cost-effective prices (-$4.22 to
$29.02) based on a range of inputted assumptions. The assumptions used to produce the
prices at the very top and bottom of that cost-effective range were overly optimistic and
pessimistic, respectively, and included sensitivity and specificity figures outside the range
of appropriately-powered published results. Ultimately, CMS issued a national
reimbursement limit for the test of approximately $22, which reflected the top of the cost-
effective range for published results.
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 3/67


To justify its ~$500 price target, EXAS requires CMS to price Cologuard's reimbursement
using a crosswalk analysis. That is, EXAS added up CMS reimbursements for the
separate test components within Cologuard, and arrived at a total sum of approximately
$500. Analysts have inputted reimbursements ranging from approximately $300 to $500
into their models, and used those assumptions to churn out valuations in the $15/share to
$25/share range for EXAS.  This analysis is completely flawed, and we are confident that
CMS will base its reimbursement rate off of a cost-effectiveness analysis instead. As we
confirmed with a former senior CMS employee with more than a decade of
experience working on CMS reimbursements and policies, the assumption that
CMS will use a crosswalk analysis is fundamentally wrong for two reasons:


1) The DNA tests contained within Cologuard, which account for over 95% of the value in
EXAS' hypothetical crosswalk analysis, were explicitly banned by the Department of
Health and Human Services ("HHS", parent bureau of CMS) in 2012 from being
reimbursed as diagnostic tests (as they would be used in Cologuard). See below for
relevant text from the HHS memorandum (emphasis added):


"The Social Security Act provides that no Medicare payment may be made for
expenses incurred for items or services that are not reasonable and necessary for
the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve the functioning of a
malformed body member. Consistent with this, Medicare does not pay for preventive
screening tests except for those specifically authorized by statute (e.g., prostate-
specific antigen test). Since CMS considers predictive tests to be screening
tests, genetic tests for this purpose are not covered by Medicare."


While certain DNA tests for cancerous markers are covered by CMS, due to the
expensive nature of such tests, they are almost exclusively used as "companion
diagnostics" for patients who have already been diagnosed with cancer in order to
determine proper treatments - they are NOT approved to diagnose cancer itself in
normal, asymptomatic patients, and it is well-known that they are not cost-effective
for such purposes. For instance, the most expensive component of Cologuard is the
KRAS test (currently sold as therascreen KRAS PCR Kit). This test is being reimbursed by
Medicare, but only for patients who are already known to have colorectal cancer, in order
to determine whether or not EGFR inhibitors (such as cetuximab and panitumumab) would
be appropriate treatments.  It is NOT reimbursed as a diagnostic tool for patients without
symptoms to determine whether or not they should be referred for a colonoscopy. We
encourage investors to visit the MolDX website to review further information regarding
caveats for genetic test reimbursements.


3


4


5


6



https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 4/67


The genetic tests EXAS uses within Cologuard (KRAS, NDRG4, and BMP3) are not new
or novel, and CMS is not permitted to reimburse for any of those tests individually as
screens for colorectal cancer. It makes no sense for HHS to contradict itself by suddenly
electing to make an exception for Cologuard, and this would open the gates for companies
to push for the dozens of existing genetic tests to be independently approved for
screening for various cancers.


2) Calculating the reimbursement rate via crosswalk analysis has no relation at all to the
true value of Cologuard. Crosswalks are only used in cases where the test components
are used together in practice, and combining them represents a logical, cost-effective
combination. That is not the case for the DNA tests within Cologuard - none of which are
currently being reimbursed as screening tests for CRC. Again, the DNA tests within
Cologuard that EXAS is seeking reimbursements for are only used in practice to check for
specific mutations within patients who are already known to have cancer, in order to
determine proper courses of treatment.


Given that Cologuard is a screening test for CRC, it is especially ridiculous to assume that
CMS will price Cologuard via crosswalk as opposed to using gap-fill (cost-effectiveness).
First, there are numerous alternative tests spanning a wide range of
sensitivities/specificities available to screen for CRC which allow for an easy cost-
effectiveness analysis. Second, CMS has consistently relied on established cost-
effectiveness models in order to determine appropriate reimbursement rates for CRC
screening tests. CMS has commissioned a cost-effectiveness report for every single CRC
diagnostic test it has reviewed in the past decade. Finally, pricing Cologuard using a
crosswalk would open the floodgates for biotech companies to stack on as many
expensive DNA tests as possible without regard to practicality or efficiency.


Imagine if a competitor created a new test that combined a dozen random DNA tests for
markers linked to different types of cancer, and then asked for a $5,000/test
reimbursement from CMS based on a crosswalk analysis of those tests. Would this new
test be able to detect (to an extent) different types of cancer without harming patients?
Sure, but only to a very limited extent - most cases of cancer would be missed, since
specific DNA markers are typically found in a relatively small portion of total patients with
any given type of cancer. Would the new test be a cost-effective use of healthcare dollars?
Not at all. Cologuard can be boiled down to a combination of FIT (a CRC test with a CMS
national reimbursement limit of $21.70) with additional DNA marker tests (KRAS, NDRG4,
and BMP3). As we will show in this paper, the incremental value of those additional DNA
tests does not even come close to justifying EXAS' asking price. Breaking out the
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 5/67


sensitivity of the FIT by itself based on the DeeP-C results, we find that at least 80% of the
total sensitivity to cancer provided by Cologuard can be directly attributed to Cologuard's
embedded FIT (which carries a national reimbursement limit of $21.70). To put it
simplistically, 80% of Cologuard's cancer detection ability is already available for $21.70
per test. EXAS is claiming that it will be reimbursed an additional $450+ per test for the
20% of the cancer sensitivity provided by the DNA tests, simply because those DNA tests
are ordinarily billed that much, despite that fact that those prices are associated with
completely different uses that affect a much smaller patient population.


We believe that CMS will price Cologuard using the gap-fill process instead of crosswalk,
meaning that MACs will calculate reimbursement rates largely based on a cost-
effectiveness analysis commissioned by CMS. A prior cost-effectiveness report
published by CMS shows that a theoretical test dominating Cologuard in every
single aspect of sensitivity and specificity, many of them by a wide margin,
warranted a reimbursement rate of $179 - $247/test.  Therefore, Cologuard cannot
possibly achieve a reimbursement higher than $247/test. We have constructed an
internal cost-effectiveness model based on thorough assessment of published
colorectal cancer ("CRC") detection cost-effectiveness modeling, and our model
shows that the most likely cost-effective reimbursement price will be between $100
and $150 per Cologuard test: approximately 70-80% less than EXAS' proposed rate.
However, a complex model is not even necessary to see that this is the case - it is clear
from published CMS data that we will discuss in this paper that even a $150/test
reimbursement rate for Cologuard is a major stretch. We also find it very telling that EXAS
has been unable to find any partners for Cologuard and has not published its own cost-
effectiveness study for Cologuard, despite purportedly "working" on one since 2011.


Cologuard is EXAS' second attempt at getting CMS approval for a CRC test. CMS
previously reviewed Cologuard's predecessor, PreGen-Plus, which was a different fecal
test for CRC that also relied on DNA markers. CMS rejected it due to lack of FDA approval
- but not before commissioning a cost-effectiveness analysis showing that the cost-
effective price for PreGen-Plus would be $34 to $60 per test - well below the $300/test
that EXAS was asking for. Let's assume that $300 was representative of the
reimbursements for the DNA test components of PreGen-Plus. While CMS technically did
not use gap-fill to price PreGen-Plus because it was rejected, ask yourself this: do you
think CMS would have been willing to reimburse $300/test, when cost-effectiveness
showed that the test was only worth $34-$60/test? Do you think CMS will reimburse at
$500/test for Cologuard, when cost-effectiveness modeling shows that the test is only


7
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 6/67


worth $100-$150? Exactly. Using a crosswalk analysis in the case of Cologuard is
especially inappropriate given the huge discrepancy between the cost-effective
price for Cologuard and the price calculated using a crosswalk.


Due to the high gross costs associated with its Cologuard test (estimated by sell-side
analysts to be between $150-$250 per test, and implied to be $165+/test, based on EXAS
executives' comments during earnings calls and EXAS' 2013 Investor Fact Sheet ), EXAS
needs to achieve reimbursements in excess of $150 to even turn a profit. To put it
bluntly, we believe that following FDA approval, EXAS will be unable to sell its
Cologuard test at a gross profit. Barring any new radical developments in its
pipeline, this leaves EXAS worth little more than the cash on its balance sheet (a
little over $3/share).


Again, the two problems with a crosswalk analysis are that 1) such a reimbursement rate
has no relation at all to the true value of the EXAS DNA test and 2) the DNA tests
contained within Cologuard are explicitly banned from being reimbursed as diagnostic
tests for patients with no symptoms (as they would be used in Cologuard). A crosswalk
analysis ignores the actual cancer detection rate or prevalence of type 1/type 2 errors
(sensitivity and specificity) and completely ignores the other currently available methods
for colorectal cancer detection. Crosswalk pricing is only applicable in cases where
the proposed test/procedure represents a logical combination of other
reimbursable tests/procedures that would be used in conjunction with each other
during the ordinary course of care, which is not the case for Cologuard's DNA
marker tests. While genetic tests could technically be used to detect cancer, using them
for such a purpose is not cost-effective. The reimbursement rates for KRAS, NDRG4, and
BMP3 (the DNA marker components of Cologuard) were set by MACs for detecting
mutations in patients already known to have cancer, in order to determine the proper
treatments. EXAS' proposed crosswalk analysis takes the reimbursement rates for the
DNA tests contained within Cologuard completely out of the context of established
reimbursement rates. In addition, performing cost-effectiveness analyses to
determine coverage/reimbursement rates for colorectal cancer screening tests has
been CMS policy for the past decade. Every single innovation within colorectal cancer
screening that came up for CMS review regarding National Coverage Determination has
been subject to an extensive cost-review paper ordered by CMS - this includes a report on
Fecal Immunochemical Tests commissioned in 2003, a report on Cologuard's predecessor
PreGen-Plus commissioned in 2007, and a report on CT colonographies commissioned in
2009. We strongly encourage investors to review the relevant papers, which we have
posted in the Appendix to this report.


8
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 7/67


On top of all this, EXAS has misrepresented the relative benefit of Cologuard. EXAS'
pivotal DeeP-C trial results are extremely misleading when comparing Cologuard with
FITs, because EXAS used a high cut-off level (100 ng/mL) for hemoglobin levels in the
FITs it was comparing Cologuard to, which made the FITs seem less capable of
diagnosing cancer/large polyps than they really are. FITs work by measuring levels of
human hemoglobin in a fecal sample provided by the patient and comparing them to a
predetermined "cut-off level" to determine whether or not a patient should be referred for a
colonoscopy. The presence of human hemoglobin in feces indicates bleeding in the
colorectal passage, which could be caused by polyps and/or cancer. The higher the cut-off
level, the more likely the FIT will miss cases of advanced adenomas or cancer, and the
less likely the FIT will show false positives. The lower the cut-off level, the more likely the
FIT will catch advanced adenomas or cancer, but the more likely the FIT will also show
false positives for patients who do not have CRC or advanced adenomas. In this report,
we show that a well-powered 2012 trial using the exact same brand of FIT as EXAS
used in the DeeP-C trial showed that adjusting the cut-off point for that FIT down to
50 ng/mL as opposed to the 100 ng/mL level EXAS used in DeeP-C accounted for
nearly all of the difference in sensitivity between the FIT and Cologuard observed in
DeeP-C, while maintaining superior specificity. Because EXAS took so long to develop
and get Cologuard approved, technological advancements in the machines responsible for
interpreting FITs have allowed FITs to achieve comparable results to Cologuard.


Finally, we think the addressable market for Cologuard is approximately 70% smaller than
EXAS claims, and is in decline. A paper published on March 17, 2014 shows that the
majority of patients (approximately 70%) using FITs/FOBTs are also concurrently having
colonoscopies every 10 years, and used the non-invasive tests as a secondary detection
test for CRC. The author explicitly stated that "dramatic declines in incidence in recent
years have been largely attributed to the uptick in colonoscopy, because it is the only test
for which use increased from 2000 to 2010; use of fecal immunochemical testing and
sigmoidoscopy declined during that time period." Given the price point EXAS is
targeting, no payer would be willing to cover their test in tandem with colonoscopies,
unless the colonoscopy were medically necessary based on the results of a Cologuard
test. As a result, we believe the true addressable market would be those patients who are
exclusively using FITs/FOBTs: approximately 2.7mm patients. Assuming 30% market
share (as EXAS Management has), we arrive at 810,000 patients. Assuming uniform
discrete distribution over three years, this comes out to 270,000 patients per year. Even if
EXAS were to achieve its theoretical reimbursement of $500/test (which we view as
impossible), peak revenue would only be $135mm/year (compared to the billion dollar
market that bulls and analysts are predicting).



http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3322/caac.21220/full
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 8/67


We believe that the unfavorable CMS reimbursement decision will be followed by EXAS
unsuccessfully attempting to convince private insurers to pay a price above its gross
costs. While we, like many others, also believe that adoption by patients would be low
regardless of reimbursement and that both patient compliance/acceptance and total
market size for Cologuard are grossly overestimated,  these issue are ultimately
irrelevant. These issues are secondary to the much larger problem: a failure to achieve a
reimbursement price in excess of the gross cost of each Cologuard test. We believe this
will prevent the test (regardless of how many patients want to use it) from ever generating
a profit.


CMS CRC Screening Precedents, and How CMS Will Get to $100-$150/Test


First, it is helpful to review how EXAS arrives at its proposed reimbursement price. EXAS
claims that CMS will use a crosswalk analysis summing the reimbursements of the
different elements of Cologuard in order to calculate Cologuard's reimbursement price.
Below is a reproduction of a table from a recent EXAS investor presentation (included in
the Appendix to this report) showing how EXAS arrived at a theoretical price of ~$500/test
for Cologuard:


This analysis is completely irrational - by claiming that CMS will calculate reimbursement
based on a crosswalk analysis, EXAS/analysts are effectively claiming that the
reimbursement rate for the test is merely a sum-of-the-parts calculation and has no
relation at all to the actual cancer/polyps detection rate or sensitivity/specificity
(prevalence of type 1/type 2 errors). That type of policy would encourage EXAS and other
companies to bundle as many DNA tests as possible to drive up the cost, regardless of
end benefit to patients. It makes no sense, and this is not how CMS calculates
reimbursements for colorectal cancer diagnostic tests! As we highlighted in the
Summary section, the US Department of Health and Human Services (parent agency to
CMS) has explicitly stated that Medicare will not cover genetic tests as a screening test
for patients without signs or symptoms (emphasis added):


9


10
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 9/67


"The Social Security Act provides that no Medicare payment may be made for
expenses incurred for items or services that are not reasonable and necessary for
the diagnosis or treatment of illness or injury or to improve the functioning of a
malformed body member. Consistent with this, Medicare does not pay for preventive
screening tests except for those specifically authorized by statute (e.g., prostate-
specific antigen test). Since CMS considers predictive tests to be screening
tests, genetic tests for this purpose are not covered by Medicare. However,
genetic tests used to diagnose or determine treatment in the presence of signs and
symptoms of disease can be covered by Medicare."


The CEO of EXAS, Kevin Conroy, would have investors believe he is doing CMS a huge
favor by asking for reimbursement based on a crosswalk analysis (emphasis added):


"Our test is so…fortunately, a very straightforward test with a limited number of
biomarkers in it. And we, unlike other new molecular tests, are not looking to be
reimbursed based upon the value of an algorithm, rather we are looking to be
reimbursed for these specific codes, which have been fortunately listed in these
Tier 1 and Tier 2 codes that have been created. So I think that is part of thought
process on the part of CMS."


-EXAS CEO Kevin Conroy, Q3 2013 Earnings Call


Unfortunately for Kevin, the CMS process for reimbursing CRC diagnostic tests is much
more sophisticated than merely adding up component prices, and value plays a major role
in CMS decisions when it can be accurately determined.


Every time CMS has been approached to make a National Coverage Determination
("NCD") for a new CRC detection test in the past decade, it has commissioned a report
from the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality ("AHRQ", a Department of Health
and Human Services subsidiary). The AHRQ reports evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the
proposed test, and determine the appropriate price for the test, such that the test would lie
on the efficient frontier of available tests.  Tests evaluated by AHRQ include the FIT, a
prior iteration of EXAS' DNA stool-based test (PreGen-Plus), and CT colonographies. We
have provided all of the relevant reports in our Appendix to this report posted on
gravityresearchgroup.com.


1. Fecal Immunochemical Test (FIT): CMS commissioned a cost-effectiveness report
from AHRQ in 2003 to determine the appropriate reimbursement rate for FIT tests. The
original creator of FIT tests, Enterix, proposed a price of $28/test. At the time, the


11



http://gravityresearchgroup.com/
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 10/67


sensitivity and specificity of FITs were significantly better than the sensitivity and
specificity of FOBTs (the primary non-colonoscopy alternative). In its request, CMS
explicitly asked AHRQ to 1) compare FIT to FOBT in terms of cancers detected,
cancer deaths averted, and costs, 2) Assess cost-effectiveness, and 3) estimate
reimbursement levels of FIT at which cost-effectiveness would be equal to FOBT at
current Medicare reimbursement. The AHRQ report showed that the appropriate
reimbursement rate (threshold price where the cost-effectiveness of FIT would be
equal to the cost-effectiveness of FOBT) for FIT was between -$4.22 and $29.02,
depending on assumptions/modeling. The assumptions used to produce the prices at
the top and bottom of that cost-effective range were overly optimistic and pessimistic,
respectively, and included sensitivity and specificity figures outside the range of
appropriately-powered published results. Based on the cost-effectiveness study, local
CMS carriers set a median reimbursement of approximately $22 (which ultimately
became the national limit): well below the reimbursement rate Enterix was asking for,
but within the range presented in the AHRQ report.


2. PreGen-Plus: CMS commissioned a cost-effectiveness report from AHRQ in 2007 to
determine the appropriate reimbursement rate for PreGen-Plus, for which EXAS was
requesting $300/test. AHRQ modeled out that the cost-effective price for PreGen-Plus
would be $34 to $60 per test - well below what EXAS was asking for. Ultimately, CMS
elected not to cover the test due to lack of FDA approval. However, because one of the
aims of this paper was to determine the cost-effective price for ColoSure (PreGen-
Plus' successor) even though the performance of ColoSure was unknown at the time,
the paper also included an analysis for a wide range of potential sensitivities and
specificities - including theoretical diagnostic tests that completely dominate
Cologuard.


3. CT Colonography: CMS commissioned a cost-effectiveness report from AHRQ in
2009 to determine the appropriate reimbursement rate for CT colonographies. The
study showed that CT colonographies could be cost-effective at per-test cost of $108
to $205 per scan (well below the $488 average cost per test cited in the study).
Ultimately, CMS decided not to cover CT colonographies due to "lack of sufficient
clinical evidence". However, at the time, two separate large-scale studies confirming
CT colonographies as an effective method of diagnosing CRC had been completed:
the Department of Defense study (which enrolled 1,233 subjects) and the National CT
Colonography Trial (which enrolled approximately 2,600 subjects). As we confirmed
in discussions with a former senior CMS employee, it is clear that CMS' real
reason for rejecting CT colonographies almost certainly stemmed from the fact
that the cost-effectiveness of CT colonographies had been shown in the cost-
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 11/67


effectiveness paper commissioned by CMS to be significantly below the average
cost per CT colonography test. As a result, we believe there is a meaningful
probability that Cologuard will suffer the same fate as CTCs.


There are already numerous tests (FIT, FOBT, sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy, etc.) available
to test for colorectal cancer and precancerous polyps. The availability of these tests
makes it possible to produce reliable cost-effectiveness analyses that focus on
comparative cost-effectiveness with other solutions, rather than being forced to attempt to
quantify the value of extra years of human life. In cost-effectiveness analyses, these
existing diagnostic tests for CRC make up the cost-efficient frontier, which is quantified as
the tests which provide the highest life-years gained for equivalent total cost. The cost-
effectiveness analysis is performed using three well-established models (the MISCAN-
Colon, SimCRC, and CRC-SPIN models) that are used for calculating cost-benefit of the
CRC detection test. Below is a graphical depiction of the cost-efficient frontier used in
AHRQ papers for colorectal cancer detection tests. Note that actual placement of different
tests/combinations of tests will vary depending on the model used:


The graph above shows the cost-effectiveness of each test/combination of tests. Each
point in the graph represents a different diagnostic test/procedure or combination of
diagnostic tests/procedures, and the cost-effectiveness of each test is measured as the
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 12/67


life-years gained in exchange for total additional costs. "No screening" yields zero benefit
in life years (hence the Y-coordinate is zero) and carries significant cost due to the costs
associated with treating colon cancer.


Within the efficient frontier graph, the (x,y) coordinates for each test are determined by the
test's benefit in terms of life-years (that is, how many life-years patients using the test gain
on average) and the total costs of the tests (including costs subsequent to the test). The
total costs include not only the cost of the test, but also the cost of resulting
procedures/events (including for Type 1 and Type 2 errors), such as colonoscopies, polyp
removals, potential complications, and treatments for colon cancer. In the case of a Type 1
error (a false positive), the test incorrectly determines that the patient has colorectal
cancer, and requires a colonoscopy to find and remove the malignant polyp and assess
what further treatment may be required. The rate of Type 1 errors is calculated as: 100% -
(specificity). For instance, the specificity of the FITs used in EXAS' DeeP-C trial was 95%,
while the specificity of Cologuard in the same trial was 87%. The rate of Type 1 errors is
therefore 5% in FITs and 13% in Cologuard, based on the DeeP-C trial results. Lower
specificity means increased probability of unnecessary colonoscopies, increasing the
effective cost of the test. Cologuard's low specificity (high rate of Type 1 errors)
relative to all other testing options is the key reason that, despite having high
cancer/polyp sensitivity (low rate of Type 2 errors) relative to existing non-invasive
tests, it is not cost-effective for CMS to pay anything near the premium EXAS is
claiming the test deserves.


In the AHRQ studies we reviewed, the top right point of the efficient frontier (maximum life-
years gained) was either colonoscopies or flexible sigmoidoscopies every five years,
combined with FOBTs every year, while the bottom left point of the efficient frontier is
FOBTs once each year. A separate cost-effectiveness graph is produced for each of the
three accepted models: MISCAN-Colon, SimCRC, and CRC-SPIN. The models each have
slight nuances that affect the discounted costs per life-year, including 1) the value of
detecting pre-cancerous polyps and 2) the "dwell time" estimates (that is, how long it takes
for pre-cancerous adenomas to evolve into cancer). It is impossible to know how fast the
progression from precancerous adenomas to cancer actually occurs, because reaching
such a conclusion would require identifying such polyps 10+ years in advance of them
turning cancerous and monitoring those specific polyps in a large population for decades,
which is impractical and unethical in real life. Higher dwell time, lack of polyp bifurcation
(keeping it such that every polyp is capable of becoming cancerous, rather than only
certain polyps being capable of becoming cancerous), and continuous modeling of
adenomas (compared to discrete modeling) all increase the life-years per dollar gained
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 13/67


through CRC diagnostic tests, but lower the incremental benefit of increased screening
frequency. Below are comparative summaries of the three models used for calculating
cost-effectiveness of CRC screening methods:


1. MISCAN-Colon: This model assumes that there are two types of adenomas:
progressive adenomas (which can progress to cancer) and non-progressive adenomas
(which can never progress to cancer). In this model, the dwell time is estimated to be
approximately 10 years, on average, before clinical diagnosis (significantly shorter
than in the other two models). MISCAN assumes a distribution of adenomas
throughout the colorectal passage that is the same as the distribution of colorectal
cancer cases, which causes an increased percent of adenomas (approximately 30%)
to be located in the rectal passage, compared to the 8-10% suggested by data from
autopsy studies. This causes MISCAN-Colon to estimate higher cost-effectiveness for
testing strategies involving sigmoidoscopy when compared to SimCRC and CRC-
SPIN, due to a modeling a larger proportion of adenomas being within the reach of the
sigmoidscope.


2. SimCRC: This model assumes that all adenomas have the ability to progress to
cancer, though most will not during the lifespan of an individual. In this model, the
dwell time is estimated to be approximately 22 years, on average, before clinical
diagnosis (close to the CRC-SPIN estimate, and significantly longer than in the
MISCAN model). Contrary to the MISCAN model, SimCRC assumes that
approximately 8-10% of adenomas are located within the rectum, decreasing the cost-
effectiveness of testing strategies involving sigmoidoscopies.


3. CRC-SPIN: This model assumes that all adenomas have the ability to progress to
cancer, though most will not during the lifespan of an individual. CRC-SPIN also
models continuous size of adenomas, rather than discrete stages of adenoma size that
are used in the MISCAN and SimCRC models. In this model, the dwell time is
estimated to be approximately 25 years, on average, before clinical diagnosis (close to
the SIM-CRC estimate, and significantly longer than in the MISCAN model). Contrary
to the MISCAN model, CRC-SPIN assumes that approximately 8-10% of adenomas
are located within the rectum, decreasing the cost-effectiveness of testing strategies
involving sigmoidoscopies.


For each of the three models, there are three major inputs: sensitivity (probability of
detecting cancer/adenoma among patients who have cancer/adenoma) to different sizes
of pre-cancerous polyps, sensitivity to colorectal cancer, and specificity (probability of
positive reading being correct, rather than a false positive). Sensitivity to pre-cancerous
polyps can be sub-divided into sensitivity to polyps less than 5 mm, sensitivity to polyps
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 14/67


between 5 mm & 10 mm, and sensitivity to polyps greater than 10 mm. When EXAS was
seeking CMS coverage for the first iteration of its test (PreGen-Plus), AHRQ published a
cost-effectiveness paper for CMS that modeled the maximum cost-effective prices for
numerous ranges of sensitivity and specificity for precancerous polyps and CRC, since, at
the time, it was not clear what the actual sensitivity and specificity for PreGen-Plus and its
successor (ColoSure) were. That paper, along with other similar cost-effectiveness papers
written by authors of that paper, provides a maximum cost-effective price of $247 for a test
that completely dominates Cologuard in every respect (and by a wide margin in most of
them). See below for a table summarizing the cost-effective prices collected from
published papers commissioned by CMS regarding potential new diagnostic tests for CRC
(the dominant test is Test E, although Test F is also a dominant test):


The stool-based DNA test ("sDNA") figures from the above table can be verified through
the tables on pages 28 and 37 of the file labeled CMS Cost-Effectiveness Report - sDNA
in the Appendix to this report. Again, this was a cost-effectiveness study requested by
CMS in order to determine proper pricing. As it states in the report, the sensitivity and
specificity figures provided in the table above are the only independent inputs for
each test when computing cost-effectiveness. There are no other confounding
variables impacting cost effectiveness that we are leaving out that would obscure the data.
As such, even without building an independent model, one can review the table and gain a
very good sense of the range of reimbursements Cologuard can realistically expect.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_2.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 15/67


The fact that the maximum reimbursement price for Test E, as determined by AHRQ, is
$247/test implies that the maximum reimbursement price for Cologuard will be lower,
since Test E is equal to or superior to Cologuard in every single measure. How much
lower will Cologuard's reimbursement be? Take a look at Test G: sDNA (v2.0) has much
more similar characteristics to Cologuard, with lower sensitivity for small adenomas,
higher sensitivity for large adenomas, and slightly lower sensitivity for colorectal cancer,
and slightly lower specificity, yet has a maximum reimbursement of $41! We can say
with certainty that the reimbursement rate for Cologuard will be below $247/test.
Given that the sDNA (v2.0) test is much closer to having similar
sensitivity/specificity figures than Test E, we believe that Cologuard's
reimbursement rate will be closer to $41 than to $247-based on our internal model;
we believe that the ultimate reimbursement will be, at best, between $100 and $150.
However, compared with the data provided by precedent CMS publications in the above
table, even our estimates appear very optimistic. Bulls may argue that some of the data
used in the cost-efficient price modeling is old, and that inputs have changed. This is
correct, but the changes in inputs all adversely affect the cost-effective reimbursement for
Cologuard! The maximum reimbursement will be even lower using current data than using
the data previously used in the AHRQ models, because 1) CMS reimbursement rates
have declined since the AHRQ paper was published, 2) the sensitivity and specificity of
FIT was shown to be higher in every single measure through the DeeP-C trial than the
authors of prior cost-effectiveness papers assumed it to be, and 3) advances in the ability
of FIT processing machines to reliably detect lower levels of hemoglobin make them
nearly as effective as Cologuard, with a CMS reimbursement rate of $21.70 (see next
section for more on this). See below:


As a result, the cost-effective pricing for Cologuard today is even lower than it would have
been when the AHRQ papers were written. Again, the published papers show
definitively that the cost-effective price for Cologuard is between $17 and $247, and
our internal modeling produces a likely reimbursement price between $100 and
$150 per test, which is generous when compared to the published figures for tests
with comparable specificity and sensitivity figures.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_3.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 16/67


We have found in the course of our research that many investors appear to have a gross
misperception of CMS reimbursement rates for alternatives to Cologuard (other CRC
screening tests). For instance, a short-seller estimated the cost of colonoscopies at
$2,777, based on commercially available data in a Seeking Alpha article.  However, this
is way too high. In reality, colonoscopies and sigmoidoscopies, which offer the highest
available sensitivity and specificity to cancer and large adenomas (well in excess of
Cologuard on all measures), are only reimbursed $100-$700 by CMS. EXAS is proposing
a reimbursement rate within this range for an inferior test that would require a colonoscopy
to verify positive test results. See below for 2014 CMS reimbursements of variations of the
two procedures:


Why Cologuard is Not as Remarkable as Investors May Think


Cologuard is merely combining a currently-available non-invasive test (NYSE:FIT) with
extra tests for DNA markers. However, the DNA markers provide only marginal
incremental benefit, and, in fact, sabotage the specificity of the test. See below for a


12



https://seekingalpha.com/article/1571592-exact-sciences-flushing-down-the-drain-2-of-5

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FIT

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_4.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 17/67


performance and price breakdown of the FIT and the supplemental tests included in
Cologuard, based on the results of the DeeP-C trial:


Cologuard's Biggest Contribution: Cost


The above chart shows what percentage of sensitivity, specificity, and cost can be
allocated to the FIT within Cologuard versus Cologuard's supplemental DNA markers, and
is scaled to 100% (that is, the total sensitivity/specificity of Cologuard are not actually
100%, but the chart shows the percent contribution of FIT and EXAS' supplemental
markers). The figures used are based on EXAS' proposed cost for Cologuard and the
results of its DeeP-C trial. It is true that Cologuard nearly doubles the sensitivity to
precancerous polyps, but precancerous polyps are a secondary characteristic of
diagnostic tests - the most important factor (obviously) is the test's ability to detect
colorectal cancer.


Cologuard's DNA tests have a very limited impact on sensitivity to cancer (the more
important sensitivity measure), and actually negatively impact the specificity by roughly
8%. Further, this graph plainly shows that the proposed increase in cost far outweighs the
increased benefit. EXAS is estimating reimbursement for Cologuard at $476.83 in a recent
investor presentation. EXAS is asking for a 2,000%+ premium to FIT, while providing
much lower relative increases in terms of sensitivity and a negative impact on specificity.


Returning to the point we discussed in the Summary, we believe that even the
above breakdown graph is egregiously overestimating Cologuard's relative value
over available FITs, because EXAS chose an artificially high cut-off rate (100 ng/mL)
for positive FIT readings in its pivotal trial. A trial published in the American Journal of
Gastroenterology (Wijkerslooth et al) showed that lowering the cut-off rate from 100 ng/mL
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 18/67


(which EXAS used in its trial) to 50 ng/mL would have reproduced nearly the entire
difference between Cologuard and the comparator FIT EXAS used in its trial. Compare
the sensitivities and specificities for the 50 ng/mL FIT with Cologuard in the table below
(see outlined sections):


As the above table shows, Wijkerslooth et al produced very similar results to the reference
FIT in EXAS' DeeP-C trial results using a cut-off for positive results of 100 ng/mL, with all
figures within 1% of each other, except for sensitivity to advanced adenomas (which
showed a 5% difference). Reducing the cut-off level for the FIT from 100 ng/mL of
hemoglobin to 50 ng/mL, we find that the sensitivities and specificities for the FIT are
within spitting distance of Cologuard. Adjusting the contribution chart from the prior page
to reflect the Wijkerslooth et al results for a 50 ng/mL cut-off for positive results, we find
that the FIT is capable of producing 83% of the sensitivity to large polyps and 95% of the
sensitivity to colorectal cancer when compared to Cologuard:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_6.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 19/67


The link between the reduction in hemoglobin cut-off levels and increased
sensitivity/decreased specificity should be obvious, and makes perfect sense: as the FIT
cut-off declines, the test becomes more sensitive to hemoglobin in stool samples.
However, hemoglobin is not necessarily attributable to cancer or advanced adenomas
(though most of the time, it is), and as a result, the specificity decreases when the cut-off
level is reduced. We further confirmed the link and the ability to improve sensitivity using
FIT beyond the levels achieved in DeeP-C through other published studies. Below is a
table taken from a meta-analysis published in February 2014 that compiled completed
trials to provide a more complete picture of the relationship between cut-off values for FITs
and sensitivity and specificity:


Source: Ann Intern Med. 2014; 160(3):171-181 (Link)


As the outlined section in the table above shows, comparing the sensitivities and
specificities for different cut-off ranges (from >50 µg/g to <20 µg/g) showed increases in
sensitivity and decreases in specificity at each step, with sensitivity increasing by nearly
1/3 when comparing the highest cut-off range with the lowest cut-off range. This is
consistent with the results from Wijkerslooth et al. When reviewing the table above, please
note that the units were all converted to µg/g, and the exact conversion rates will differ
depending on the exact brand of FIT used, some of which use varying amounts of buffer
solution. Below is a breakout of the different trials included in the meta-analysis results
outlined above:



http://annals.org/article.aspx?articleid=1819122

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_8.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 20/67


Based on our review of available literature, the trials used in this meta-analysis represent
a comprehensive summary of significant trials evaluating FIT to date. Note that the OC-
Light (outlined above) used the lowest cut-off values. We produced a table showing that,
based off of significant cumulative studies with a more than double the patient pool of the
DeeP-C trial, OC-Light appears to achieve sensitivity to CRC that is nearly as high as
Cologuard with superior sensitivity. OC-Light's superior sensitivity performance in the
trials is clearly attributable to the fact that it used the lowest cut-off values:


Bull Counterpoints and Our Preemptive Rebuttals



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_9.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 21/67


Bull Counterpoint #1: But Cologuard Will Drive Increased Compliance, Which Will
Drive Higher Cost-Effectiveness!


In order to help justify its ridiculous reimbursement target, EXAS has also pushed the
notion that compliance with its stool-based test will be greater than existing non-invasive
solutions, owing to a "compliance engine" that it intends to build out involving mailings and
calls to patients who have received stool kits to increase the rate at which those patients
return stool samples. It is virtually certain that, when (or if) EXAS publishes the cost-
effectiveness analysis it claims to have produced, the analysis will rely heavily on
Cologuard having significantly higher compliance than alternatives in order to justify high
reimbursement rates. However, there are three reasons we believe this will not help drive
higher reimbursements from anyone:


1) EXAS' benchmark DeeP-C trial results completely betray the "higher compliance"
conviction - if anything, everyone should be assuming that compliance with
Cologuard will be LOWER than compliance with existing FITs. This is plainly shown in
the article discussing the DeeP-C results published recently in the New England Journal of
Medicine. On page 4 of the article, Figure 1 shows a breakdown of the enrollment and
outcomes from the trial. Within the chart, you can see that of the 11,016 eligible
participants enrolled in the trial, 687 Cologuard samples provided by patients were
excluded because of leakages in shipping, failure to receive specimens from participants,
or due to technical failure. Of the 11,016 participants, 34 had FITs excluded from the
results due to insufficient hemoglobin sample. To put it together, this means that within the
DeeP-C trial, patients using Cologuard were 20x more likely to fail to return the test
or have an unsuccessful test than patients using FIT. See below for the relevant
diagram from the NEJM article:
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 22/67


On top of that, multiple authors responsible for modeling out the cost-effective prices of
colorectal cancer detection methods in prior cost-effectiveness paper commissioned by
CMS stated in a 2010 paper that they believe adherence to stool DNA tests (Cologuard)
was unlikely to be greater than adherence to existing tests due to the fact that both tests
are non-invasive.  We agree, and though the authors did not comment on this, we
believe that the "ick" factor increases exponentially with a test such as Cologuard, where
patients are forced to handle/ship a meaningful amount of feces, as opposed to trace
amounts of feces that can be brushed onto a sheet. This is likely to adversely impact
compliance rates.


2) The 70% compliance rate at Kaiser Permanente that EXAS claims to investors it
can replicate is completely implausible, because the primary driver of the increased
compliance at Kaiser Permanente that EXAS cites was the fact that the insurance
company was preemptively sending out test kits to at-risk patients - NOT additional
calling/mailing after patients received the test kits. EXAS' claims that it will be able to


13



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/4/15604502_13988647981788_11.png
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 23/67


achieve increased compliance rates due to its "compliance engine" from the national
average of 59.1%  to 70% by pointing to the success experienced by Kaiser
Permanente's success are extremely misleading. The increased compliance was largely
driven by the fact that patients were mailed initial tests, which is something EXAS would
have no power to do. In order to participate in such a system (which would involve mailing
out tests to all customers), payers would have to have financial incentive - but there would
be none if the price of Cologuard already reflects the benefit of higher compliance and
EXAS is pocketing the incremental benefit!


3) Historical precedents show that CMS refuses to reimburse for non-lab
procedures (including a compliance engine) under its clinical diagnostic laboratory
fee schedule; therefore, any actual benefit derived from the "compliance engine"
will not be reflected in reimbursement prices. For instance, there are numerous multi-
analyte assays that require algorithmic analyses - meaning that after the assays are
completed, algorithms are run to analyze the results and to reach the appropriate
conclusion. Despite the fact that algorithm analyses are required to yield actionable
results, CMS declined to reimburse for the algorithmic analyses, because "Medicare does
not recognize a calculated or algorithmically derived rate or result as a clinical laboratory
test". Similarly, EXAS' proposed "compliance engine" is not going to be acknowledged as
a clinical laboratory test. Below is CMS' commentary from its preliminary decision for
Multi-Analyte Assays with Algorithmic Analyses ("MAAAs"). Emphasis added:


"CMS Preliminary Payment Decision


CMS uses other codes for payment of the underlying clinical laboratory tests on
which the MAAA is done and does not recommend separately pricing the MAAAs
codes.


Rationale


A MAAA is a numeric score(s) or a probability (i.e., "p-score") based on the results of
laboratory tests and, in some cases, patient information. Medicare does not
recognize a calculated or algorithmically derived rate or result as a clinical
laboratory test since the calculated or algorithmically derived rate or result alone
does not indicate the presence or absence of a substance or organism in the body.
Medicare uses other codes for payment of the underlying clinical laboratory tests on
which the MAAA is done and we continue to recommend not separately pricing the
MAAAs codes."


14


15
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 24/67


Bull Counterpoint #2: But Given Imaging is getting reimbursed ~$1,000/test for
PillCam Colon 2! Therefore, $500/test for Cologuard is not unreasonable.


PillCam Colon 2 ("PillCam") is completely different from Cologuard. PillCam is only
reimbursed for patients who are unable to have conclusive colonoscopies, and is in
fact, only indicated for such patients by the FDA.  For such patients, there is no other
currently-available method backed by significant clinical results that is capable of locating
adenomas/polyps throughout patients' entire colons. Colonoscopies are the gold standard
for locating and removing polyps, and there are no generally accepted alternatives with
clear prices for patients who were unable to receive complete colonoscopies. As a result,
using an efficient market pricing model to determine the fair price based on alternatives
does not work. On the other hand, Cologuard is one of several methods of merely
diagnosing patients with colorectal cancer and precancerous polyps. Cologuard does not
identify polyp locations, while PillCam does.


Second, the reimbursement decision for Cologuard must come via a national coverage
determination ("NCD") from CMS, where CMS sets a national limit for reimbursements for
Cologuard. This is the case for all clinical diagnostic laboratory procedures. PillCam is not
a clinical diagnostic laboratory procedure, and is reimbursed on a local coverage
determination basis, with no NCD from CMS.


Bull Counterpoint #3: But the CRC Detection Market is Large, and Some Payers Will
Pay $500/Test Regardless of the CMS Decision!


Even ignoring the "ick" factor of Cologuard and the difficulties EXAS will run into marketing
the test due to its impracticality compared with alternatives, the addressable market for
Cologuard is approximately 70% smaller than EXAS claims and is in decline. A paper
published on March 17, 2014 shows that the vast majority of patients (approximately 70%)
using FOBTs/FITs are also concurrently having colonoscopies every 10 years and used
the non-invasive test as a secondary diagnostic test for CRC. See below for the relevant
table:


16



http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.3322/caac.21220/pdf
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 25/67


The author of the paper stated that "dramatic declines in incidence in recent years have
been largely attributed to the uptick in colonoscopy because it is the only test for which
use increased from 2000 to 2010; use of fecal immunochemical testing and
sigmoidoscopy declined during that time period." Given the price point EXAS is
targeting, no payer would be willing to cover their test in tandem with colonoscopies. As a
result, we believe the true addressable market would be approximately 2.7mm patients.
Assuming EXAS can achieve its proposed 30% market share among those patients, we
arrive at 810,000 patients. Assuming uniform discrete distribution over three years, we
arrive at 270,000 patients per year. Even if EXAS were to achieve its theoretical
reimbursement of $500/test (which is highly improbable), peak revenue would only be
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 26/67


$135mm/year. At a more realistic estimate of $150/test, that figure falls to total peak
revenue of only $40.5mm/year. This is a somewhat pointless exercise, though, because
$150/test would represent a negative gross margin for EXAS.


EXAS' Gross Margins


Below are two quotations from 2013 earnings calls discussing expected pricing and
margins (emphasis added):


Q2 2013 Earnings Call:


"Yes, Brian, that's very, very consistent with how you should think about it and how
we've thought about it. What we've always said is we expect gross margins 65% or
better at launch -- not at launch, excuse me, but at a run rate. And so you could
expect over time us to get to that -- so let's say, by year 3, us to be able to
attain that 65% -- with some modest inefficiencies as we approach that. So as
we get closer to launch, we'll be discussing that in more detail. But the best way to
think about it is still consistent with what we've said about that 65% gross margin
once it is penetrated into year 3, and approaching that, it would be modest
inefficiencies, but not far from that."


-EXAS CFO


Q3 2013 Earnings Call:


"At the end of September, CMS released 2014 National Limitation Amounts or NLAs
for Tier 1 molecular pathology codes. It has yet to issue final payment rates for Tier 2
codes. Cologuard contains components in both tiers. CMS issued a rate for KRAS
testing at $199. It had previously issued its rate for FIT testing at $22. Together,
these 2 codes amount to $221. In addition, we believe that the agency will eventually
issue rates for the detection of methylated DNA. Presently, Cahaba, a regional
Medicare administrative contractor, has priced single-methylated variant detection at
$140. Cologuard has 2 methylation markers: NDRG4, and BMP3. Assuming CMS
sets the National Limitation Amount for a single-methylated variant at $140,
the total reimbursed value of Cologuard would be $501. The final payment level
will be determined by HAPG."


-EXAS CEO
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 27/67


Combining the two comments, we get to a peak run-rate gross cost per test of
approximately $175. Using a lower target reimbursement price ($476.83) from a January
2014 investor presentation (see below), we arrive at a peak-efficiency gross cost of
$166.89 per test:


Conclusion


As we discussed in the Summary, the root of the mispricing of EXAS equity is the
misconception by analysts and shareholders that Cologuard will be reimbursed based on
the cost of its DNA test components as opposed to the cost-effectiveness of Cologuard.
Despite Management's insistence that CMS will use a crosswalk analysis to price
Cologuard, we believe that EXAS has been well-aware for a long time that the
reimbursement rates for Cologuard will depend heavily on cost-effectiveness studies.
EXAS has previously acknowledged that cost-effectiveness was critical to achieving its
target reimbursements: see below for an excerpt from EXAS' 2010 Letter to Shareholders:


"Among the most important marketing activities during 2011 will be the initiation of
studies that will measure Cologuard's cost effectiveness. These studies are
important to our efforts to achieve the desired reimbursement level for the test. If we
can demonstrate a significant economic influence on the prevention, diagnosis and
care of colorectal cancer, the reimbursement rate for the test should reflect that
contribution."


In the same letter, EXAS assigned a $500 price target to Cologuard:


17
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 28/67


"Our market analysis also has helped us value the market opportunity we're
pursuing. There are at least 80 million Americans who are at average risk of colon
cancer and eligible for screening today. Assuming a 30 percent penetration rate and
current reimbursement rates, we estimate the market for our screening test to be
$1.2 billion."


Multiplying 80 million by 30%, we get 24 million patients. Dividing $1.2 billion by 24 million,
we get an average price of $500 per test. It seems that Management believed, at the time,
that Cologuard would perform well enough in the DeeP-C trial to elicit a $500/test
reimbursement.


Unfortunately, EXAS reported its unfavorable top line results in April 2013, and after
reporting the data, EXAS stock dropped approximately 20% over the next few trading
days. The primary endpoint targets were 85% cancer sensitivity, 50% pre-cancerous
polyps sensitivity, and 90% specificity. The reported Deep-C results show that Cologuard
achieved 92% cancer sensitivity, 42% detection of pre-cancerous polyps, and 87%
specificity - effectively missing two out of three primary endpoints. However, we do not
think this will preclude Cologuard from being approved by the FDA. We do, on the other
hand, believe that it will make it impossible for Cologuard to achieve the reimbursement
rate investors are expecting.


Prior articles published on EXAS have scratched the surface regarding EXAS' problems,
but have largely ignored or incorrectly addressed the elephant in the room: reimbursement
rates. For instance, the article published by Reed Research values EXAS at $8-9, based
on the assumption of a price of $300/test, which the author got from a prior CMS paper.
It is likely that the author was referring to the following excerpt when stating that the study
"gave a range of between $200 to $300 for a 3-year interval test":


"The threshold costs of the DNA stool test version 1.1 at 3-yearly intervals were…
$237-$302 if the DNA stool test had perfect test parameters."


However, the $237-$302 range is for tests with perfect test parameters! That is, the
test would have 100% sensitivity to cancer and all large adenomas, and 100% specificity.
Cologuard is far from perfect, and the $237-$302 range represents a cap on how much
EXAS could get reimbursed if it were perfect - not a range of likely reimbursement prices!
While we commend the author for his work, the article overestimates the potential range of
prices for Cologuard.


18


19


20



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2134693-exact-sciences-is-a-near-term-short-due-to-risks-and-assumptions-about-its-future-business
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 29/67


Because Cologuard is a non-invasive diagnostic test that provides useful metrics and
poses no potential threat to patients, there is no reason for the FDA not to approve
Cologuard - determining practicality and cost-effectiveness is not within the FDA's
wheelhouse. However, we also think that Cologuard is as close as you can get to a
guaranteed flop, with reimbursements at least 70-80% lower than EXAS has
communicated to investors, and little doctor or patient interest in selecting this test over
other non-invasive alternatives due to the cost and the "ick" factor. The conventional fecal
immunochemical test (FIT) requires patients to use a brush to scrape fecal samples onto a
card that is then mailed back and processed by a lab. Cologuard requires patients to
return a minimum of 8 grams of fecal matter in a container, as well as a separate fecal
sample for hemoglobin sampling, and offers sensitivity and specificity that are comparable
to existing FITs. We doubt any patients will be rushing to try to get test kits.


Marketability aside, we believe that following imminent FDA approval, it is very likely that
EXAS will be unable to sell its Cologuard test at a profit on a gross basis. We think it is
very telling that EXAS has been unable to find any partners and has not published a cost-
effectiveness study for Cologuard, despite purportedly "working" on one since 2011.
Barring any new radical developments in its pipeline, we believe EXAS is worth nothing
more than the cash on its balance sheet (a little more than $3/share). We rate the stock a
"Strong Sell", and we are short. EXAS shareholders are encouraged to reach out to us
at info@gravityresearchgroup.com with any questions you may have regarding
EXAS or the content of this report.


1 Sensitivity is the rate of correct positive readings; if sensitivity is 90%, then, on
average, 90% of the positive cases would be correctly interpreted as positive, while
10% of positive cases would be incorrectly interpreted as negative.


2 Specificity is the inverse rate of false positive readings; if specificity is 90%, then,
on average, 10% of the negative cases would be incorrectly interpreted as positive.


3 The exception is Maxim Capital, which was rightfully suspicious regarding EXAS'
prospects, and has issued a Sell rating on EXAS with a current price target of $8.


4 Link


5 Link


6 Link


7 See CMS CRC Screening Precedents, and How CMS Will Get to $100-$150/Test



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FIT

https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/oei-07-11-00011.pdf

http://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf/DocsCat/MolDx%20Website~MolDx~Browse%20By%20Topic~Covered%20Tests~978QP82338?open&navmenu=Browse%5eBy%5eTopic%7c%7c%7c%7c

http://www.palmettogba.com/palmetto/MolDX.nsf/DocsCatHome/MolDx
5/20/2018 EXAS: Testing Negative For Future Revenue - EXACT Sciences Corporation (NASDAQ:EXAS) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2177413-exas-testing-negative-for-future-revenue 30/67


