5/19/2018 Bronte Capital: The New York Times pile onto Insys


http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2014/05/the-new-york-times-pile-onto-insys.html 1/4


The sometimes eccentric views of John Hempton


Bronte Capital


Thursday, May 15, 2014


Posted by John Hempton at 12:17 AM  


The New York Times pile onto Insys
The New York Times picks up where this blog leaves off, piling onto Insys Therapeutics. To quote: 
 


Interviews with several former Insys sales representatives suggest the company, based
in Chandler, Ariz., has aggressively marketed the painkiller, including to physicians who
did not treat many cancer patients and by paying its sales force higher commissions for
selling higher doses of the drug. 


Under F.D.A. rules, manufacturers may market prescription drugs only for approved
uses. But doctors may prescribe drugs as they see fit. Over the last decade,
pharmaceutical companies have paid billions of dollars to settle claims that they
encouraged doctors to use drugs for nonapproved treatments, or so-called off-label
uses, to increase sales and profits. 


Drug-safety experts said the range of medical professionals who appeared to be
prescribing Subsys was troubling, particularly given concerns about the widespread use
— and abuse — of narcotic painkillers. In December, Insys disclosed that it had
received a subpoena from the federal health department’s Office of the Inspector
General for documents related to its sales and marketing practices. The company has
said it is cooperating with the investigation.


 
Marketing the drug off-label is a criminal offence and as the drug has near substitutes it will not be
much if any loss to consumers if this company were closed. 
 
The Feds are clearly interested having indicted a doctor who was allegedly prescribing large
quantities of the drug off-label. 
 
Can somebody please explain to me why this company is trading at 21 times historic earnings and
almost 7 times historic sales? Because I don't quite get it. 
 
 
 
 
 
John


