5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


Westport
Innovations: A
Failing Business
With Undisclosed
Material JV Stake
Transfer
Jun. 5, 2013 9:24 AM ET3 comments | Includes: Westport F…


Clean-tech investing is filled with perils. Investors often fail to recognize the
difference between companies that record current losses in order to invest in a
brighter future and companies that record losses simply because they are
inherently failing businesses. Westport Innovations (NASDAQ:WPRT) was set
up as a house of cards and has stayed a house of cards. Shareholders have
been constantly given elusive hopes of imminent profitability yet the Company
has repeatedly failed to deliver on such a promise. It is common practice at
Westport to regularly put out positive press releases. However, when a
material JV stake was transferred to another party which results in changed
economics in the joint venture, Westport's management failed to promptly
disclose to investors such information. Furthermore, Westport may face
regulatory issues given its most recently filed 40F contain false statements. As
recent as March 7th of 2013, the CEO made false statements when questioned
about one of its joint ventures. The CEO stated that Weichai Power is excited
about the joint venture with Westport when in fact Weichai Power has already
exited its stake in Weichai Westport per relevant regulatory filings in Hong
Kong. The CEO further hid gross margin impact from the JV agreement
modification with Cummins on the February 20th 2012 conference call. CEO
David Demers specifically stated that there will be no gross margin impact at
CWI from the JV modification when questioned by a research analyst yet the
gross margin of Cummins Westport collapsed by an astonishing 15% in the
next few months. Additionally, the Company has a pattern of putting out lots
of vague press releases with no follow through and the CEO making constant



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WPRT

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/WPRT
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


CNBC appearances to tout the stock. The bullish analyst community has
constantly overestimated the financial performance of the Company. A failing
and constantly loss-making business is somehow portrayed to the investment
community as an innovative company with a bright future. The future,
however, is much bleaker than what the investors can anticipate even if the
market for natural gas engines does take off.


While much buzz has been placed on the JV between Weichai Power and
Westport Innovations, investors should focus on Westport's failure to disclose a
significant structural change of Weichai Westport. Analysts have pegged a 10
dollar valuation on this JV or 33% of the current stock price. Many Westport
bulls point to the substantial revenue growth in Weichai Westport and
therefore conclude a bright future for Westport in China. An undisclosed stake
transfer in the JV may serve as a wake-up call for such bulls. Given Westport
management's prolific approach to issuing press releases, its failure to disclose
such a material stake transfer by its partner only further validates the lack of
credibility of the management. Potential future regulatory impact will likely add
an additional layer of uncertainty for Westport investors if the 24 cents a share
valuation of Weichai Westport is not alarming enough.


Undisclosed Stake Transfer in Weichai Westport


Management of Westport made material false statements in filings with the
SEC as well as the Canadian Securities regulator with regards to a significant
portion of its business. In the most recent 40F filed with the SEC on March
8th, 2013, the Company stated:


"Weichai Westport Inc. ("WWI"), a joint venture between Westport (35%
interest),Weichai Power Co. Ltd., ("Weichai") (40% interest) and Hong Kong
Peterson (CNG) Equipment Ltd. ("Hong Kong Peterson") (25% interest) to
focus on the Chinese market. WWI develops, manufactures and sells
advanced, alternative fuel engines and parts that are widely used in city bus,
coach and heavy-duty truck applications in China or exported to other regions
globally. WWI's facility in China currently has an annual production capacity of
40,000 engines. Currently, WWI is integrating Westport HPDI technology to
create the new 12-litre Weichai Westport HPDI Landking engine designed to
deliver the same power, torque and performance as that of the original diesel
engine. Expected to be launched in 2013, this engine will fill the gap in the
natural gas engine market for heavy-duty trucks in China".



https://www.box.com/s/4b44mvdak96s5tr6uehb

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1370416/000110465913018916/a13-4360_1ex99d2.htm
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


In fact, Weichai Power Co. has already sold its 40% stake to its parent holding
company for roughly 15 million USD in an arm-length transaction before the
end of 2012.


Per public securities filing with the HK Stock Exchange, Weichai Power
announced on December 26th, 2012 the transaction to sell off its entire stake
in "Weichai Wesport Inc.". The stake sale was completed on January 4th,
2013. Total consideration for the 40% stake was 94 million RMB or around 15
million USD. Following the release, there was a fair bit of media controversy
surrounding the sale in China given Weichai Power's status as a publicly listed
company in Hong Kong. Weichai Power maintained that the sale to its parent
holding company was an arm-length transaction giving proper valuation to
"Weichai Wesport Inc". The deal was properly appraised and subsequently
signed off by all independent directors of Weichai Power. To further clarify the
reasoning behind the asset sale, Secretary of the Chairman at Weichai Power
gave an exclusive interview to a Chinese securities newspaper.


The wildly bullish analyst community has long maintained a lofty and
unrealistic valuation target on Westport. Sum of the parts valuation on
Westport has been one of the most popular methods used by analysts to
justify their ridiculous price targets. In the most recent comparable transaction
valuing WWI, 40% of Weichai Westport was worth roughly 15 million dollar
and that puts Westport's stake in the JV at roughly 13 million dollar. With 55.3
million shares outstanding, Weichai Westport is worth roughly 24 cents a
share. In the meantime, the bullish analyst community generally pegged at
least a 10 dollar valuation for Weichai Westport, 40 times the amount that was
fetched in the most recent stake sale that happened a few months ago.


Furthermore, the management at Westport has been elusive to the investing
public about the true status of Weichai Westport in China. Per relevant filings,
WWI buys base engines from Weichai Power then sells products back to
Weichai Power. In order to justify the arm-length transaction, officials at
Weichai Power commented on the transaction. Mr. Dai at Weichai Power stated
that they will start raising prices on the base engines to a fair market price.
Mr.Dai further described Weichai Westport as a liability to Weichai Power due to
the subsidies Weichai Power has to provide for WWI.


On March 7th 2013, when CEO David Demers was asked questions about their
Chinese partner's view on Weichai Westport, Demers stated



http://www.weichai.com/public/up2011/20121226he01.pdf

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1370416/000110465913018916/a13-4360_1ex99d2.htm

https://www.box.com/s/36e09m0kjfghuufez5py
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


"Weichai is running the show on how to sell natural gas engines, much as they
are in diesel engines. And in China it is becoming incredibly competitive. The
natural gas business is doing really well, and what the scale now, with these
numbers, this has actually become a big business, and I think Weichai is very
pleased with the opportunity."


In fact, Weichai has already sold its stake in Weichai Westport because the
discount it has to embed in the base engines that are being sold into the JV.
The management also did not bother disclosing the potential gross margin
implication of the JV stake transfer given base engines will now be sold into
the JV at a fair market price. This will likely destroy the meager net income the
JV has reported in the past. The most recent quarterly performance of Weichai
Westport is a clear demonstration of such impact. I have translated an excerpt
of the article dated January 14th, 2013, which sheds light on Weichai Power's
attitude towards Weichai Westport.


"To answer the controversy, Weichai Power's secretary of the board responded
for the first time since the transaction. He explained to journalist at Golden
Securities. "The reason we decided to sell the JV stake is that we feel strongly
WWI stake is better owned by Weichai Holdings. Under Weichai Power, WWI is
only a subsidiary. But at Weichai Holdings, WWI is more independent with
more resources".


In natural gas engines, the base engine and electric control systems account
for 87.5% of the total cost. Especially the base engine part accounting for
50% of the total cost. The overall costs of those two parts largely decide the
ultimate sale price and profits. For a long time, WWI purchased base engine
directly from Weichai Power. Dai Lixin explained. "Because those are related
party transactions, the price we sell WWI the base engines is also the price we
sell at the market. This brings an issue for us because in order to support
WWI, we priced our base engines too low. In other words, we are missing
100% of the profit for this 40% stake"


Also, WWI currently has a capacity of 50k natural gas engines. With the help
of Weichai's strategic advantages in the industry, it mainly sells to Shanxi and
Futian heavy trucking as well as intra and inter-city buses. "In order for WWI
to develop, it cannot only purchase base engine from Weichai Power. But the
current situation is competitors are not willing to sell base engines to WWI.
The reason is simple, wouldn't selling base engine be equivalent to aiding the



http://finance.sina.com.cn/stock/s/20130114/094214276534.shtml
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


competition? And once WWI is owned by the holding company, there's little
direct competition hence WWI could purchase base engine from other vendors
and maybe move into other fields".


Dai further told the journalist from Golden Securities. "Over the course of
these past few years, many major vehicle manufacturer and engine
manufacturer such as Dongfeng, Shanghai Diesel engine and others are all
working on natural gas engine. The field is getting very competitive. Plus,
nature gas can count as alternative energy at most and it is not really new
energy. It's unclear whether there'll be a bright future for the industry".


When Westport announced the most recent quarterly results on May 2nd,
2013, in explaining the gross margin percentage decrease of Weichai Westport
from 16.7% to 6.6%, Westport stated the following:


"The decrease in gross margin percentage is related primarily to product mix
and aggressive efforts to penetrate new markets and build market share in
China"


This directly contradicts statements made by officials at Westport's former JV
partner Weichai Power. Mr. Dai of Weichai Power clearly stated in the interview
that they would be selling base engines into the JV at market price following
the sale of its stake in Weichai Westport and the increased price on base
engines is most likely the real explanation for the 10 percentage points drop in
gross margin. It is puzzling why Westport wants to attribute the dropped
margin to product mix or aggressive efforts to penetrate new markets.
Westport's management goes through great lengths to hide the fact Weichai
Power has sold its stake and it further hide from investors the significant
changes in the economics of WWI. While the Chinese natural gas engines
market may grow, Westport is very unlikely to reap much benefits from such
growth as evidenced by its $0.6 million share of profits in the most recent
quarter from Weichai Westport.


Given the value of WWI pegged by Weichai Power, the easiest valuation to
derive for share price of WPRT is probably to simply replicate the analyst
community's analysis in the Company. Three times the 24 cents valuation
would reach a 72 cents price target for Westport. While this may sound harsh,
further more detailed analysis on other business segments suggests 72 cents a
share may not be as far-fetched from the reality as it sounds.



http://www.westport.com/news/2013/q1-2013-financials-revenue-outlook-up-to-30-year-over-year-growth-and-2013-product-launch-schedule
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


CEO May Have Lied about Margin Impact of JV Modification


Cummins Westport JV or CWI has seen its gross margin collapse following the
modification of JV agreement in February of 2012. CWI has seen its cost of
goods sold soar since Cummins started selling its base engines into the JV at a
markup. Moreover, the modification gives Cummins the rights to compete in
2017 and the rights to buy out the JV at an attractive valuation. Both of thee
provisions can end up leaving Westport shareholders with very little value in
CWI. The gross margin percentage in the last three months of 2012 stands at
25.6%, down from 43.7% in the last three months of 2011. The most recently
reported quarter showed a gross margin of 27.5% versus 37.2% in the same
period in 2012. While Westport management is evasive in claiming that the
margin impact primarily stems from product introduction and higher warranty
accrual, it is clear that the margin impact came directly from the markup on
the base engines given the cost structure of CWI's products and the sustained
lower gross margin since the modification. Westport made a whopping 0.8
million dollar from its crown-jewel JV, down from 4.8 million in the same
period of last year.


For Westport investors, however, it is far more concerning the outright
deception displayed by the management when they were questioned on a
public conference call about the potential gross margin impact of the JV
modification. The outright deception is on full-display when CEO David Demers
answered questions about gross margin of CWI post JV modification on the
February 21st conference call discussing the JV modification.


"Rupert Merer - National Bank Financial - Analyst


For modeling purposes, with the restated JV, should we expect consistent
gross margin as well as the ASPs from CWI, relative to previous quarters? And
will be gross margins to be similar on the 12L engine?


David Demers - Westport Innovations Inc - CEO


I think if you look at our past, Rupert, you've known us long enough to have
seen this movie probably couple generations now. As you launch new product,
there is always much lower gross margins, and as products mature and as
warranty accruals are more mature, you see those gross margins rising. So we
have been in a rising gross margin scenario with CWI the last few years, as
the ISLG has become very successful. So it's inevitable that you're going to



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1370416/000110465913018916/a13-4360_1ex99d2.htm

http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1370416/000127956913000287/ex991.htm
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


see lower gross margins on the 12G, and that is going to bring, depending on
the product mix, it is going to bring margins down, and so we would think
margins should be back to more of a historical norm. You will see this pattern
as we see the product launch, but if you go back a few years and if you listen
to what we've said for margin guidance going forward, margins for the last few
quarters have been considerably above our median guidance on gross margin
and profit. That said, I think most of the models we've looked at are pretty
realistic going forward for contribution to both parents, and we think there is
no reason to adjust models up or down, based on any particular quarter. But
we expect the same pattern as we've always had. The ISX12 will get launched
with a conservative warranty accrual. That is going to have relatively low gross
margins at launch, probably for the first warranty period or two. So two or
three years, you're going to see lower margins than at maturity.


Rupert Merer - National Bank Financial - Analyst


Okay.There's nothings materially different in the restated joint
venture agreement that would impact the margins?


David Demers - Westport Innovations Inc - CEO


No.


The CEO of Westport specifically guided the analyst community to model with
flat-margin assumption going forward for CWI only to see the gross margin
collapse by 1500 basis points a short few months afterwards.


Core Business of Westport


With WWI being priced at 24 cents a share and CWI currently generating little
income and disappearing in the intermediate term, investors in Westport are
really betting on a bright future of Westport's core business. At the current
$1.6 billion valuation, investors may be placing way too much faith on a
realistically negative NPV business. Given much of the future for Westport
hinges on its presumed future dominance in the natural gas engine sector, the
Applied Technologies Segment which reports roughly $10 million operating
income can be viewed as a stable business. The focus really hinges on its On-
Road Systems segment, or Westport HD.
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


Westport HD, the wholly owned business segment of Westport Innovations,
targets heavy duty trucks and has been a perennial loser for Westport
shareholders. Westport attempts to compete with Cummins directly to gain
shares from the predominantly diesel engine driven trucking industry.
Unfortunately, Westport HD simply does not have much of a prospect in such a
highly competitive sector without support from Cummins. As of 2012, the HD
division has a total employee headcount of 79, compared with 44,000
employees at Cummins. Also, with limited plant and equipment, Westport
simply is not in a remotely competitive position even if the gas engine market
were to take off. Furthermore, the gross margin for the segment has stayed at
single digit, laughable by any standards. To illustrate the ludicrous nature of
the business, the entire segment shipped a grand total ofthree 15L engines in
the most recent quarter.


Moreover, while infrastructure development is on the map, heavy duty gas
engine market will most likely be very slow to develop given the current lack
of infrastructure. A Reuters analysis in late March discussed in details the
difficulties surrounding decisions to heavily invest in natural gas engines by
the fleet operators. The actual realization of the diesel engine to natural gas
engine transformation is likely many years away. Cummins most likely would
have already bought back the Cummins-Westport JV at that time and it will
likely leave Westport shareholders in the cold.


Analyst Community


Aside from the proven ridiculous valuation put out by the bullish analyst on
Weichai Westport, analysts' projections of Westport's profitability have also
been proven wrong repeatedly. To demonstrate, a Table is produced to show
that analysts had repeatedly been wildly unreliable when it comes to analyzing
the timing of Westport's bright future.


Brokerage


Firm


Date of Initial


View


Initial


Assessment


Date of Subsequent


Change


Subsequent


Assessment


Piper


Jaffray


4/10/2012 Profitable in


2013


3/8/2012 Profitable in 2015



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1370416/000127956913000578/ex991.htm

http://www.reuters.com/article/2013/03/22/us-trucks-natural-gas-idUSBRE92L07620130322
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


Morgan


Stanley


2/8/2011 Profitable in


2014


1/16/2013 Profitable in 2015


Macquarie 3/20/2012 Profitable in


2014


1/17/2013 Profitable in 2015


Jefferies 12/1/2011 Profitable in


2014


3/8/2013 Losses in 2015


Craig-


Hallium


5/19/2011 Profitable in


2013


3/20/2013 Significant Losses


in 2014


The more downbeat analyst such as Stifel is predicting losses throughout 2018
and I am predicting losses till insolvency.


The Strangest Compensation Plan Ever Existed


While relatively unrelated to the investment thesis, Westport's old
compensation plan is simply too amusing to pass up mentioning. Prior to
2012, the management's compensation was tied to the stock performance of a
self-manufactured clean-tech index. Per the company's proxy in 2011.


" The Corporation's main reference market for purpose of comparative analysis
and benchmarking executive compensation includes publicly listed alternative
power and energy technology companies of comparable size, complexity and
market capitalization. The 'Comparator Group' includes: A123 Systems,
American Superconductor Corp, Ballard Power Systems Inc., Capstone Turbine
Inc., Clean Energy Fuels Corp., Energy Conversion Devices Inc., Fuel Systems
Solution Inc., Fuel Tech Inc., Plug Power and Syntroleum, Inc, among
others""Of the Units granted during the nine months ended December 31,
2011, 145,794 Units were subject to market and service conditions. The fair
value of these Units was determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation using the
following weighted average assumptions: expected dividend yield - nil%;
expected stock price volatility - 59.98%; and risk free interest rate - 1.52%.
The valuation model determined the grant date fair value based on
assumptions about the likelihood of the Company achieving different payout
factors as driven by the market conditions. Payout factors are determined
based upon the absolute stock price two years after the grant date and the



https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&ved=0CDIQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.westport.com%2Finvestors%2Ffinancial%2F2011%2Fannual%2Fwestport-fy2011-information-circular-2012-03-19.pdf&ei=cYONUf_hMarIigKB_oHICg&usg=AFQjCNEGAt3zGv6WRYken1YFMwsKMCrqLQ&sig2=bBCBUDRHXTgsBrQvzMWRog&bvm=bv.46340616,d.cGE
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


stock price relative to a Synthetic Clean Tech index of comparative companies
two years after the grant date. One-half of these Units vest after two years
and the remainder after three years from the date of the grant. The impact of
market conditions, if any, on compensation expense for these units is
determined at the time of the grant with no adjustment to the compensation
expense for the actual results of the market condition."


To dissect the group of "comparators"


A123 Systems (Pink Sheet: AONEQ) - Bankrupt
Gentherm ($560M mkt cap, NASDAQ:THRM) - fast growing, profitable
manufacturer of heating, cooling, and ventilating devices for cars
Ballard Power ($100M mkt cap, TSE:BLD) - unprofitable manufacturer of
fuel cell products
Capstone Turbine ($260M mkt cap, NASDAQ:CPST) - unprofitable
manufacturer of microturbine technology
Clean Energy Fuels (NASDAQ:CLNE) - unprofitable and designs, operates,
and maintains compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas
(NYSEMKT:LNG) fueling stations
Fuel Systems Solutions ($310M, NasdaqGS:FSYS) - marginally profitable
supplier of fuel components for natural gas engines
Fuel-Tech, Inc. ($80M, NasdaqGS:FTEK) - profitable designer of solutions
for the optimization of combustion systems in industrial applications
Gentex Corp. ($3.5B mkt cap, Nasdaq:GNTX) - profitable auto-dimming
rearview mirrors and camera-based lighting-assist manufacturer to the
automotive industry worldwide.
PMFG, Inc. ($125M, Nasdaq: PMFG) - unprofitable manufacturer of custom-
engineered systems for natural gas infrastructure.
American Superconductors ($140M, Nasdaq:AMSC) - Stock is down 90%
since 2011


Such compensation plan only goes to show the problematic incentive structure
of Westport's management team. Instead of focusing on improving profitability
and generating real value for the shareholders; Westport's management
placed more attention on the actual stock price.


Conclusion



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CLNE

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LNG
5/23/2018 Westport Innovations: A Failing Business With Undisclosed Material JV Stake Transfer - Xuhua Zhou | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/6756741-xuhua-zhou/1924361-westport-innovations-a-failing-business-with-undisclosed-material-jv-stake-transfer


