5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 1/98


Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix
Dec. 16, 2010 4:13 PM ET286 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Background


We've lost a lot of money betting against Netflix (NASDAQ:NFLX), which is currently our
largest bearish bet, in the form of both a short and put position. In this letter, we share our
investment thesis in depth and describe why, at a stock price of $178.50 and a market cap
of $9.3 billion (based on yesterday's close), we think it's an exceptional short idea.


Given the natural inclination to talk about winners and quietly sweep losers under the rug,
one might ask why we are writing about one of our worst investments. We have three
main reasons for doing so: First, we think it's healthy to disclose and fully analyze our
mistakes (although in this case we are not yet conceding that we've made a mistake in our
analysis, but we obviously made a mistake in terms of timing our entry into the position).
Second, it's a useful exercise for us - it helps clarify our own thinking - to put in writing our
investment thesis, especially on complex and controversial positions (for example, on
June 11th we published our 10-page analysis of why we were buying BP's stock amidst
the panic at that time (it was then at $33.97 and closed yesterday at $43.86)). Third, we've
found that when we publish our research, we often get valuable feedback. If there's
information or analyses that would cause us to change our views, we want to hear about
it!


And, no, contrary to what message board bulls will surely claim, we're not publishing our
research in an attempt to salvage a bad investment by driving the share price down so we
can exit at a better price. We are value investors, not traders, harbor no illusions about our
ability to move markets, and our total capital committed to Netflix would not even place it
among our top 12 long positions.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NFLX

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BP
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 2/98


Since we rarely buy a stock at the very bottom or short one at the very top, having a
position move against us, at least initially, is a common occurrence. When this happens,
we re-evaluate our analysis and investment thesis and make one of three decisions: add
to the position, do nothing, or exit. Making the right decision here is critical - it's often more
important than the initial investment decision - and there's no easy answer or rule of
thumb. (In our experience, we'd guess that we add to a position 40% of the time, do
nothing 40% of the time, and exit 20% the time.)


It's often a hard decision, both for fundamental and emotional reasons. Regarding the
former, the fact that a stock's price has become more attractive doesn't necessarily mean
it's a better investment. A stock typically moves because something has happened to the
company, industry or world, so the change in the fundamentals must be weighed against
the change in the share price.


The emotional side can be even more difficult. Numerous studies of investor behavior (the
field is called behavioral finance) show that once an investor has a position in a stock,
there are tremendous biases to seek confirming information, ignore disconfirming
information, and not admit a mistake. We don't claim to be immune from these emotions,
but we've studied them extensively and do our best to block them out. One of the simplest
techniques we use is to ask ourselves: If our portfolio was 100% cash and we were
investing from scratch, would we establish this position and, if so, how big would it be?


In the case of Netflix, the answer is that we'd have exactly the position we do today. In
other words, we're not short it in a desperate and irrational attempt to try to make back
what we've lost. The price at which we initially shorted Netflix, the amount of our losses to
date, and whether we will ever make back these losses are completely irrelevant to our
decision to hold the position today (this is true, incidentally, of every position we hold).


Overview of Netflix


Our favorite shorts generally involve some or all of the following characteristics: outright
frauds (our very favorite), industries in decline or facing major headwinds, lousy or faddish
business models, bad balance sheets, and incompetent, excessively promotional and/or
crooked management. In general, we prefer to short businesses with these traits, even
when their stocks trade at seemingly low valuation multiples, rather than shorting the
stocks of good businesses with strong managements, even at high valuations.
Sometimes, however, the valuations become so extreme that we will short the latter, but
generally only when we believe there is a catalyst that will impact the company and cause
the stock to fall.
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 3/98


Netflix falls into this latter category. We acknowledge that the company offers a useful,
attractively-priced service to customers, is growing like wildfire, is very well managed, and
has a strong balance sheet. So why on earth would we be betting against this stock? In
short, because we think the valuation is extreme and that the rapid shift of its customers to
streaming content (vs. mailing DVDs to customers) isn't the beginning of an exciting,
highly-profitable new world for Netflix, but rather the beginning of the end of its incredible
run. In particular, we think margins will be severely compressed and growth will slow over
the next year.


Valuation


By any measure, Netflix's valuation is extremely rich. Based on yesterday's closing price,
it trades at 67.4x trailing EPS ($2.65), 63.1x the high end of the company's EPS guidance
for the full year 2010 ($2.83), and 46.7x consensus analysts' estimates for 2011 ($3.82). It
also trades at 4.6x sales. In short, the stock is priced for perfection, and any misstep
would likely trigger a huge selloff.


But the company hasn't had many missteps, so what's the catalyst? To answer this
question, one must understand how Netflix's business model is changing and the resulting
implications.


Core Business Model


Netflix's core business model is buying DVDs and then renting them to its customers, who
pay a fixed monthly fee for unlimited rentals delivered by mail plus unlimited streaming
(the fee varies by how many DVDs can be out simultaneously; currently it's $9.99/month
for one DVD, up to $55.99/month for eight DVDs; there's also a bare-bones two-
rentals/month plan for $4.99 and a streaming-only plan for $7.99 monthly).


This is a good business for two reasons: 1) Netflix has a better business model and better
management than its bricks-and-mortar competitors such as Blockbuster (OTC:BLOAQ)
and Movie Gallery, both of which filed for bankruptcy this year (the former continues to
operate as it tries to restructure, while the latter has been liquidated); and 2) Netflix only
has to pay once for the DVDs it rents over and over again to its customers thanks to
what's called the First Sale Doctrine, which allows anyone who buys a DVD to sell,
exchange, rent, or lend it to others, without paying the content owner.


New Business Model



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BLOAQ
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 4/98


Netflix's core DVD-based business model is rapidly shrinking as customers shift rapidly to
streaming content. Netflix has moved quickly to adapt, making its streaming service
available over the internet to customers' computers as well as through various devices like
iPads and iPhones (NASDAQ:AAPL), TiVos (NASDAQ:TIVO), game consoles
(PlayStation3 (NYSE:SNE), Xbox 360 (NASDAQ:MSFT) and Wii (OTCPK:NTDOY)),
streaming players (Apple TV, Roku), and certain internet-enabled televisions and home
theater systems.


Netflix's customers have responded by rapidly switching: in its most recent quarter (Q3),
the company said that 66% of its subscribers watched instantly more than 15 minutes of a
TV episode or movie compared to 41% for the same period of 2009, and 61% for the
second quarter of 2010. In Q4, a majority of Netflix subscribers will watch more content
streamed from Netflix than delivered on DVD.


So many of Netflix's 16.9 million customers are streaming videos, in fact, that they account
for 20% of all internet traffic during a typical evening, according to Sandvine, which makes
network-monitoring equipment. (We find this number hard to believe, but anything close to
it is still very substantial.)


With streaming, Netflix obviously doesn't have to buy DVDs or incur the cost of mailing
them to and from its customers, so why don't we share the market's enthusiasm for
Netflix's shift from an Old Economy company to a New Economy one? In short, our
answer is that we believe that the same two factors that made Netflix a good business
under its original business model don't apply under its streaming model.


New Competitors


We don't believe that Netflix has a better business model, better management or a
meaningful competitive advantage in the business of streaming movies and TV shows. It
does have a brand name and 16.9 million customers, but Netflix's brand and number of
customers pale in comparison to its new, direct competitors like Apple (iTunes), Google
(NASDAQ:GOOG) (YouTube), Amazon.com (NASDAQ:AMZN) (Amazon Video on
Demand), Disney (NYSE:DIS) and News Corp. (NASDAQ:NWS) (part ownership of Hulu),
Time Warner (TWX, TWC) (cable, HBO, etc.), Comcast (NASDAQ:CMCSA) (cable, NBC
Universal, part ownership of Hulu), and Coinstar's Redbox (NASDAQ:CSTR) (30,000
kiosks renting DVDs for $1/night and email addresses for 21 million customers).


In short, Netflix is moving from a business in which it was competing against smaller,
dying, heavily-indebted companies with inferior business models to some of the largest,
most powerful, aggressive and deep-pocketed companies in the world, which have big



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TIVO

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SNE

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NTDOY

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/GOOG

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AMZN

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/DIS

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/NWS

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TWX

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CMCSA

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/CSTR
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 5/98


competitive advantages over Netflix.


We can't predict the outcome of the fierce competition that is emerging, but we believe it is
quite likely that it will result in slower growth and a contraction in Netflix's mouth-watering
margins (last quarter, Netflix had a 12.6% operating margin and 6.9% net margin).


When asked on last quarter's conference call whether competition would impact Netflix's
margins, CEO Reed Hastings replied: "You tell me what happens with competition, and I'll
tell you what happens to margins."


Paying for Streaming Content


The biggest impact on margins, we believe, will come from Netflix having to pay
increasing amounts for streaming content. Unlike renting DVDs, in which Netflix is
protected by the First Sale Doctrine (for now, anyway - see discussion below), the laws
around streaming content require that Netflix must have an agreement with the content
owner to stream it. This is very bad news for Netflix because content owners are generally
very savvy and are seeking to carefully control their content to maximize revenues.
According to numerous recent articles, content owners are also very fearful of Netflix:


1) Here's an excerpt from a recent article in the NY Times entitled "Time Warner Views
Netflix as a Fading Star":



http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/13/business/media/13bewkes.html
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 6/98


For the past year, executives at big media companies have watched Netflix with
growing resentment - for its success in delivering movies and television shows via
the Internet, for its stock price nearly quadrupling, for its chief executive being
named businessperson of the year by Fortune magazine.


Now many of the companies that make the shows and movies that Netflix delivers to
mailboxes, computer screens and televisions - companies whose stocks have not
enjoyed the same frothy rise, and whose chief executives have not won the same
accolades - are pushing back, arguing that the company is overhyped, and vowing
to charge much more to license their content.


"It's a little bit like, is the Albanian army going to take over the world?" said Jeffrey L.
Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warner, in an interview last week. "I don't think
so."


Netflix has been a business partner to the movie and television studios through
licensing deals, but increasingly it is seen as a partner with its hands far deeper in
the pockets of the media companies than anyone thought. Through its success, the
company has positioned itself at the center of the media universe - at the nexus of
technology and content - and is now finding it a place increasingly under attack.


... Mr. Bewkes explained that in the late 1990s the media industry embraced Netflix
as a new distribution outlet for renting DVDs - without foreseeing that the company
would eventually accelerate the decline in the sales of DVDs, which for years had
been the lifeblood of the film industry. Now, with its success online, Netflix has raised
fears that consumers may stop paying for cable television - the much-debated
phenomenon of cord-cutting.


Mr. Nathanson agreed, saying, "The first engagement the industry had with Netflix
was innocent. DVDs were selling, and it didn't seem like much of a problem."


Now, however, Netflix is increasingly seen as potentially a very big problem.


"In the past six months, and because of concerns of Wall Street and concerns of
cord-cutting, it's influencing the investor conversations about the future of media,"
Mr. Nathanson said. "Now, the industry is very focused on Netflix, and what they can
do."


A media conference last week in New York held by the investment bank UBS
became a platform for executives to express their grievances and emphasize that
they will now aggressively try to tilt the economic balance between Netflix and
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 7/98


content creators back toward the media conglomerates.


"When Netflix first came around, the dog was the discs and the baggie," said Robert
S. Wiesenthal, executive vice president and chief financial officer at the Sony
Corporation of America, referring to the envelopes the discs are mailed in, "and the
streaming was the tail." But very quickly, he added, that situation was reversed. "And
now the economics for the content companies are going to reflect that."


2) Here are excerpts from a recent Wall Street Journal article entitled, "Netflix Rattles
Rivals as It Expands on Web: Pay-TV Services, Others Plot Moves to Counter Movie
Juggernaut; Hollywood Cautiously Cuts Deals":


After years as a bit player in entertainment, Netflix Inc. is being eyed for a new role
by Hollywood: industry hulk.


The Silicon Valley company has successfully expanded its mail-order DVD rental
service to delivering video online. Meantime, the rise of Internet-connected TVs and
disc players means that Netflix's electronically streamed movies and TV shows are
reaching living rooms, not just computers.


All that poses a potential threat to the traditional ways consumers watch movies and
TV: through cable, phone and satellite systems.


…Netflix's growth surge-at a time of weak DVD sales and increasingly fragmented
TV audiences-prompts concern among movie and TV studios as well as other
technology companies. One big worry is that the company could end up dominating
the electronic distribution of movies and TV the way Apple Inc.'s iTunes Store
dominates music.


To prevent that, entertainment and technology companies are exploring plans to
outflank Netflix with their own offerings.


3) Finally, here are excerpts from a recent New York Times article entitled, "Netflix's Move
Onto the Web Stirs Rivalries":



http://online.wsj.com/article/SB20001424052748704493004576001781352962132.html

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/11/25/business/25netflix.html
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 8/98


In a matter of months, the movie delivery company Netflix has gone from being the
fastest-growing first-class mail customer of the United States Postal Service to the
biggest source of streaming Web traffic in North America during peak evening hours.


That transformation - from a mail-order business to a technology company - is
revolutionizing the way millions of people watch television, but it's also proving to be
a big headache for TV providers and movie studios, which increasingly see Netflix
as a competitive threat, even as they sell Netflix their content.


... "Right now, Netflix is a distribution platform, and has very little competition, but
that's changing," said Warren N. Lieberfarb, a consultant who played a critical role in
creating the DVD while at Warner Brothers.


... "How did Hollywood end up supplying Netflix in the first place, particularly a
product that was given to them on a flat-rate, wholesale basis?" said Jonathan A.
Knee, a media investment banker and co-author of "The Curse of the Mogul."


... Netflix is increasingly viewed as a threat by cable companies and movie studios,
who are considering a variety of ways to put the brakes on the company's growth.


"Though already a significant customer, they've grown faster than anyone
anticipated, and going forward we expect the economics to improve significantly,"
said John Calkins, executive vice president of digital and commercial innovation at
Sony Pictures Home Entertainment.


For example, big media companies like Time Warner are moving quickly to offer their
own streaming products. Studios have pushed back on release dates, requiring
Netflix to wait through a window of 28 days while studios pushed more expensive
and lucrative sales of the DVD and on-demand versions on cable.  
And the studios are positioning themselves to demand more money in future
negotiations over streaming rights, especially next year when Netflix's deal with
Starz expires.


4) A final data point: We were recently at a lunch at which Jeff Zucker, the outgoing CEO
of NBC Universal, was asked about licensing NBC's content to Netflix. His reply: "We'd be
happy to - for a lot of money!"


Weak Streaming Content Today


Before we address how much Netflix might have to pay to build its library of streaming
content, it's important to understand how weak its current library is.
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 9/98


Movie Content


The bulk of Netflix's current movie content is from two deals: one struck in 2008 with Starz
and one this August with Epix, which is owned by three studios, Paramount Pictures
(NYSE:VIA), Lions Gate (LGF) and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.


Despite these two deals, Netflix has very weak content. How weak? To answer this
question, we compared streaming movie titles available on Netflix (at a fixed price per
month for unlimited viewing) vs. what one can buy a la carte (generally from
$1.99-$4.99/movie) on Apple's iTunes, Amazon On Demand, Vudu, and Time Warner
Cable's video on demand (including HBO and Cinemax on demand). To come up with a
representative list of popular movies, we took the top 50 grossing movies of all time,
Internet Movie Database's 20 top-ranked movies of all time, Rotten Tomatoes's 20 top-
ranked movies of all time, and the 10 top-selling, top-renting and top-video-on-demand
DVDs for the week ending 11/28/10.


Here's the summary: of these 120 movies (including duplicates), Netflix has a mere 17
(14.2%, and 0% of the current most popular movies) vs. 77 for iTunes (64.2%), 63 for
Vudu, 62 for Amazon, and 41 for cable. This chart depicts the results graphically:


Television Content


For television, we did a similar comparison, looking at what Netflix offers via streaming vs.
competitors' offerings (Netflix and Hulu charge a flat rate, whereas the others typically
charge $1 per episode).



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VIA

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/12/16/saupload_tilson_1.jpg
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 10/98


We took TV Guide's list of the 100 most popular TV shows. This chart depicts the results
graphically:


Netflix's Dilemma


Why is Netflix's streaming content so weak? The primary reason is that, unlike its
competitors, Netflix isn't willing to pay what content providers demand for the best movies
and TV shows. For example, Netflix's competitors typically charge $4.99 to stream a
popular movie, of which $3 goes to the content provider, and the economics are similar for
the $1 TV shows.


But this model doesn't work for Netflix because it's only charging $7.99 per month for
unlimited streaming. Given that content providers aren't about to slash their prices, Netflix
has three choices, all of them unpleasant:


1. It can have a weak library and maintain low prices, or
2. It can license better content and pass the cost along to its customers, which would


crimp growth, or
3. It can license better content and eat the cost, which would hurt margins.


None of these options are consistent with a stock trading at nearly 70x earnings.


(Incidentally, in light of Netflix's weak content, we were initially puzzled by the fact that its
customers appear to be using streaming quite a bit, but here's what we suspect is
happening: many customers have recently switched to streaming and, as new users,
they're finding a handful of movies and TV shows they want to watch (hence the high



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/12/16/saupload_tilson_2.jpg
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 11/98


initial usage). But given how thin the content is, they are likely to quickly become
discouraged and stop using the streaming service. This will put a lot of pressure on Netflix
to strike licensing deals for more content.)


Streaming Content Deals


Netflix clearly understands the dilemma it faces and, in light of recent deals, appears to be
choosing option 3, which will deliver better value to its customers over time, but will
severely crimp margins. To get an idea of how much, let's look at Netflix's primary
streaming content deals.


Starz


The first major deal, signed in October 2008, was with Starz, giving Netflix access to
approximately 2,500 Disney and Sony movies for a mere $25-$30 million annually, a small
fraction of what Starz originally paid the studios and what Starz charges TV operators.
Under the current contract, Netflix is paying Starz less than $0.15 per subscriber per
month for its content vs. the $2-4 per subscriber per month that TV operators typically pay
Starz.


Here's is what some industry players are saying about the Starz deal:


1) From a recent article in the NY Times:



http://www.nytimes.com/2010/12/13/business/media/13bewkes.html
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 12/98


The relationship between Netflix and the media companies will most likely change
drastically, beginning next year when a deal between the company and Starz, the
pay-TV channel, to stream movies from Sony and Disney expires.


The original deal from 2008, in which Netflix paid an estimated $25 million annually -
a paltry sum, executives say, compared with the hundreds of millions of dollars cable
and satellite companies pay Starz for the same movies - is now seen as a major
coup for Netflix, and a major mistake by Starz.


Michael Nathanson, a media analyst at Nomura, called it "probably one of the
dumbest deals ever. Starz gave up valuable content for tens of millions of dollars."


Mr. Bewkes said that deal, which gave Netflix significant momentum into the new
world of online video, potentially undermined the business model of cable television,
based on the subscription fees that have steadily flowed even as other media
businesses have suffered in the digital age. "Why should anyone subscribe to Starz
when they can basically get the whole thing for about nothing?" he said. "That
doesn't make much sense."


2) From a recent Reuters article:


"The deal Starz did to give those movies away for $30 million obviously makes no
sense. There's a day coming shortly when that deal expires. How do Starz and
Netflix address the next deal?" News Corp Chief Operating Officer Chase Carey said
this week at the Reuters Global Media Summit.


... Pay TV operators, which spend heavily on studio fees, are also pressuring studios
that offer cut rates for distribution on Netflix.


"Their deal with Netflix absolutely does affect our relationship," said an executive of
one of Starz's largest pay TV partners, who asked not to be named because the
source was not authorized to speak on behalf of the company.


"You can't sell your product to one distributor for pennies on the dollar and then
expect other distributors to pay you dollars for your product."


This was an extremely attractive deal for Netflix - so much so that one must wonder what
Starz could have been thinking. We assume that Starz didn't see Netflix as a potential
competitor at the time - Netflix was much smaller and did very little streaming - and viewed



http://www.reuters.com/article/idUSTRE6B060E20101201
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 13/98


the $25-30 million as found money. Also, Starz was taking advantage of a loophole in its
contract with Disney and Sony, neither of which anticipated that Starz would re-license
their content.


All of these factors that led to Netflix getting a sweetheart deal are now gone - Starz,
Disney and Sony have woken up to the value of their content and the threat that Netflix
poses - so Netflix will either have to pay up or lose the Starz content when the contract
expires in 10 months. Negotiations are underway, and Netflix (of course) says that it
doesn't need the Starz content. But we think it does - and will have to pay many multiples
of the current licensing fees. We see no reason why Netflix won't have to pay Starz at
least the $200 million annually that it's paying Epix.


Epix


In August, Netflix signed a deal to stream content from Epix, which is owned by three
studios, Paramount Pictures, Lions Gate and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. The exact terms of
the deal haven't been disclosed, but numerous reports say it's for up to $1 billion over five
years.


Importantly, Netflix won't be able to stream Epix's movies until 90 days after they have
reached Epix's distribution window, which is typically 6-12 months after a movie is first
available on premium movie channels, so this deal won't address Netflix's problem that it
offers no current releases.


Disney


Just last week, Netflix signed a one-year deal with Disney that allows Netflix to stream
episodes from previous seasons of various ABC shows, plus the final season of the hit
show Lost, plus current season programs from ABC Family and Disney Channel, with a
15-day delay. It's important to note that the deal does not give Netflix the right to ABC's
current season, which will continue to be available only on Hulu, which is co-owned by
Disney.


So how much did Netflix pay for Disney's second-tier content? According to an LA Times
article, a whopping $150-200 million.


Let's sum up the cost of these three deals:


Let's assume the Starz deal is renewed for somewhere between $150-$250 million -
that's an incremental $120-225 million per year.



http://www.latimes.com/entertainment/news/homeentertainment/la-fi-ct-netflix-abc-20101209,0,4912714.story
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 14/98


The Epix deal is reported to be "as much as" $1 billion, which is $200 million per year,
but it might be back-end-loaded (based, perhaps, on Netflix's subscribers and/or
usage), so let's assume $150-200 million in the first couple of years.
Finally, the Disney deal is reported to be $150-$200 million.


Add it all up and it's an additional cost of $420-625 million per year - a staggering amount,
especially in light of the fact that, even with these three deals, Netflix's streaming content
remains weak.


Postage and Fulfillment Savings


Ah, but what about the savings on postage and fulfillment costs due to fewer subscribers
having DVDs mailed to them? In Netflix's latest 10-Q (page 21), it disclosed that there was
"a 24% decline in monthly DVD rentals per average paying subscriber attributed to the
growing popularity of our lower priced plans and growth in streaming." This decline
translates into big savings - but not nearly enough to offset the additional costs of
streaming content according to our estimates.


Here's our math:


Netflix breaks down its cost of revenues into two categories:


1) Cost of Subscription, which consists of: a) "content delivery costs related to shipping
DVDs"; b) "providing streaming content to subscribers"; and c) "expenses related to the
acquisition and licensing of content"; and


2) Fulfillment expenses, which consist of: a) "content processing including operating and
staffing our shipping centers"; b) "receiving, encoding, inspecting and warehousing our
content library"; and c) "operating and staffing our customer service centers and credit
card fees."


The costs that are most impacted by the 24% decline in DVD rentals are 1a) ("content
delivery costs related to shipping DVDs") plus all fulfillment expenses. Netflix doesn't
disclose a breakdown of 1a), 1b) and 1c), but the latter two are amortized and, as such,
appear in the cash flow statement under "Amortization of content library." By subtracting
this, we can get a rough estimate of 1a) and then add fulfillment expenses.


Then, we can calculate this cost on a per-subscriber basis and see how much it's declined
over the past year. The answer: 15%, as shown in this table:



http://ir.netflix.com/secfiling.cfm?filingID=1193125-10-235785
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 15/98


A 15% drop in costs on a 24% decline in usage makes sense to us, as some costs like
postage will be purely variable and decline in direct proportion to the decline in DVDs
mailed, but other costs are fixed or semi-variable.


As one can see in the table, cost of revenues net of amortization of content library was
$977 million over the past year, but we don't want to apply the 15% savings to this amount
since we're looking forward, so let's assume that Netflix grows 30% next year (last quarter,
revenues were up 30.7%) such that $977 million grows to $1.27 billion. Applying the 15%
results in savings of $191 million. This is merely an informed estimate, of course, so let's
use a range of $150-250 million in savings.


Impact on Margins


If we apply $150-250 million of savings to the range of incremental costs for streaming
content ($420-625 million per year, discussed above), it results in Netflix's costs rising by
$170-475 million per year, or $42-119 million per quarter.


That's a very wide range, but even the low end, $42 million, is 64% of Netflix's $65.4
million of pre-tax profit last quarter, and the mid-point, $80.5 million, would more than wipe
out all of Netflix's Q3 profit.


But this is a forward-looking estimate, based in part on a higher amount we expect that
Netflix will have to pay Starz, so let's use the $90 million of pre-tax profits per quarter that
analysts are projecting for 2011. In this case, even the low end of our incremental cost
estimate cuts Netflix's pre-tax profits nearly in half, and the mid-point cuts profits by 90%.


Our belief that the increased costs of streaming content will negatively impact Netflix's
margins isn't just a theory. Last quarter, strong evidence emerged to support our view: in
Q3, Netflix's operating margin was 12.6% and net margin was 6.9%, down from 14.9%
and 8.4%, respectively, in Q2. That's a huge decline in only three months. The result was
a 12.5% sequential decline in earnings from $0.80 in Q2 to $0.70 in Q3. Again, this is not
consistent with a stock trading at nearly 70x earnings.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/12/16/saupload_tilson_3.jpg
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 16/98


An In-Depth Analysis of the Cash Flow Statement - and the Likely
Impact on Margins


The real cash cost of Netflix's streaming deals can be seen in its Q3 cash flow statement:
"Acquisition of streaming content library" was a cash outflow of $115.1 million, up 74.1%
from the previous quarter's $66.2 million and up 11.5x year-over-year (from $10 million).


However, this enormous increase in cash paid to bolster its streaming library didn't result
in the increase in "Amortization of content library" (which also includes DVD content) that
we would have expected: this was $77.1 million in Q3, up a mere 16.6% from the previous
quarter's $65.1 million and 36.1% year over year (from $56.7 million).


This chart shows certain key elements of Netflix's cash flow statement each quarter going
back to the beginning of 2007:


The two columns show how much Netflix is spending in cash to purchase streaming
content (the blue bar) and DVDs (the white bar). The total of these two is the red line.
Finally, the amount Netflix is amortizing for this content (which appears as an expense on
the income statement) is the purple dashed line.


Note that from Q1 2007 through Q3 2009, the two lines parallel each other closely, which
makes sense: the amount Netflix spends to acquire content should be amortized over
time. (In fact, over these 11 quarters, the amount amortized is 91% of the total amount
spent acquiring content - again, what one would expect, given that amortization should lag
cash outlays in a rapidly growing business.)



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2010/12/16/saupload_tilson_4.jpg
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 17/98


However, starting in Q4 2009, the lines diverge sharply, as Netflix began paying large
amounts for streaming content (represented by the blue bars skyrocketing), which more
than offset the decline in amounts spent buying DVDs (represented by the white bars
shrinking). In total, acquisition costs rose 159% over the past year (from $56 million to
$145 million), yet, strangely, amortization of content library rose only 35% (from $57
million to $77 million).


If we apply the 91% average ratio between amortization and cash outlays from Q1 2007 -
Q3 2009 to the Q3 2010 cash outlays of $145 million, then amortization would have been
$132 million, $55 million more than the $77 million Netflix actually amortized. (To put this
$55 million in perspective, recall that Netflix's pre-tax profit in Q3 was $65.4 million.)


To be clear, we don't believe that Netflix is committing accounting fraud. The rules
governing how intangible assets are amortized are complex and rely on various
assumptions, so there can be a lag between when cash is actually paid out and when the
amortization expense is recognized and appears on the income statement. But eventually
we expect that these large streaming costs will be amortized and therefore appear as an
expense on Netflix's income statement, causing a significant decline in margins and
profits.


Saturation


Another risk factor we see for Netflix is that the company is much closer to saturating its
market than is commonly believed. The bulls argue that the company's 16.9 million
customers represent fewer than 15% of the 115 million households in the U.S., but the
company's churn data presents a different picture.


We have analyzed the last decade of Netflix's quarterly statements, in which the company
discloses customer additions and cancellations, and calculated that Netflix has had
approximately 30 million customer cancellations. In other words, the company has had to
add approximately 47 million customers - more than 40% of U.S. households - to be left
with today's 16.9 million customers (and many of these will cancel in the future; the churn
rate last quarter was 3.8%).


If history is any guide (we think it is), Netflix will need to somehow find another 47 million
subscribers for the company to double its current subscriber count (a common medium-
term objective in many analysts' view). We don't think that many potential additions exist.


Internet Bandwidth
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 18/98


Another major threat to Netflix is internet providers starting to charge for high usage rather
than offering unlimited downloading for a flat rate. It goes without saying that streaming
video is very bandwidth intensive and, as noted earlier, Netflix may account for as much
as 20% of all internet traffic during a typical evening. Such high usage by Netflix's
customers is slowing down the internet for everyone and is one of the reasons why Cisco
predicts that internet traffic will triple by 2014. To accommodate this, carriers like AT&T
and Comcast will have to invest billions of dollars - and will of course look for a return on
this investment, most likely by shifting to a pay-for-usage model that would make Netflix's
streaming content much more expensive.


This Business Week article nicely captures what's happening:



http://www.businessweek.com/magazine/content/10_50/b4207043617708.htm
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 19/98


While few experts expect carriers to stop investing in new capacity, there's
widespread agreement that a financial crunch is coming.


Sanford C. Bernstein analyst Craig Moffett has studied the issue from the
perspective of the wireless carriers. As traffic soars, he expects the revenue per
megabit to fall from 43 cents today to just 2 cents in 2014. That means a far lower
return on investment, a key measure for telecom companies.


"The carriers are faced with an incredible deflationary spiral," Moffett said.


The tussle between Comcast and Level 3 Communications shows how the issue can
become electric.


Level 3, which operates backbone networks that quickly ship bits between cities,
recently struck a deal with Netflix to help speed delivery of its streaming videos. The
result was a sudden surge in Level 3's traffic, which eventually goes through
Comcast's cables to reach subscribers.


On Monday, Level 3 accused Comcast of charging exorbitant rates to carry the
additional traffic. Comcast shot back that it had no obligation to bear the load for
free.


The exchange is a sign of the times: Even if the technology is up to the task of
shipping huge data packets, no one is sure how to pay for it.


Ultimately, most experts expect that people who are the heaviest data users will
have to start paying more, most likely in the form of tiered pricing plans. These are
already common in Europe and Asia, but Americans are used to no limits.


The wireless networks have already moved in this direction: In June, AT&T
discontinued its $30-a-month unlimited data plan, forcing mobile consumers to
choose between an 0.2-GB-per-month plan or a 2-GB-per-month plan. On
Wednesday, Federal Communications Commission Chairman Julius Genachowski
approved limits for fixed-line networks that carry data to home or businesses, and
said carriers should have "meaningful flexibility ... to address the effects of
congestion."


Such changes are new enough that the big data senders like Netflix haven't yet
adapted to them. But on an otherwise triumphant earnings call on Oct. 20, Hastings
did concede that AT&T's data plans might limit demand for watching movies on
mobiles devices.
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 20/98


To Bernstein's Moffett, it was a striking admission.


"That was the first time I've heard one of those tech CEOs admit what should be
obvious: that you can't simply bet on continued bandwidth availability."


Netflix and others will, of course, complain about "network neutrality," but that's not the
issue here because Comcast isn't favoring its own streaming service over Netflix's. The
Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, Julius Genachowski, recently
endorsed the "usage-based pricing" idea, so we see little chance that Netflix's argument
will prevail.


Legal Risk


As noted earlier, Netflix's core business of renting DVDs to its customers depends on the
First Sale Doctrine, which is coming under legal attack by content owners who argue
(correctly, in our opinion) that it's inconsistent and unfair. After all, if Netflix is prohibited
from renting another company's content over and over again without compensation if the
delivery mechanism is the internet, why should this principle be any different if the delivery
mechanism is a DVD?


In September, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit issued a decision that calls
into question the First Sale Doctrine. Though it was a case related to re-selling software,
the court observed that the policy implications might affect movies as well.


According to Eric Goldman, an associate professor at Santa Clara University School of
Law, "The ruling could potentially have profound implications. Simply by using the right
legal terminology, copyright owners can license their works instead of selling them and
restrict how anyone, even third parties, use the copyrighted material."


This legal risk isn't a key pillar of our investment thesis, as the case will likely be tied up in
courts for years, but this ruling will likely change the negotiations between Netflix and the
content providers over the terms of DVD access in a way that isn't favorable to Netflix.


CFO Resignation


Netflix's long-time CFO, Barry McCarthy, resigned last week, citing "a desire to pursue
broader executive opportunities outside the company." (This sounds forced and cliched to
us.)



http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vernor_v._Autodesk,_Inc.
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 21/98


We have no insight into what the real story here is, but our experience is that the sudden,
unexplained resignation of a CEO or CFO is usually not a good sign, especially when in
this case McCarthy was very highly regarded, had served in this capacity since 1999, and
led the company's IPO in 2002.


What If We're Wrong? Could Netflix Be the Next Amazon?


In any position, long or short, we always ask ourselves, "What if we're wrong and what
would that scenario look like?"


The best bull case we can make for Netflix is that it becomes the next Amazon.com, which
today has a market cap of $80 billion and a stock trading at more than 70x trailing EPS.
The company has confounded all of its skeptics (and short sellers), who confidently (and
wrongly) predicted that numerous competitors, both online and offline, would put it out of
business.


Like many millions of others, we are loyal customers of Amazon for two main reasons:


1. A full selection of books and other merchandise, including the latest titles and
products; and


2. Low prices, driven in part by low margins (in the first three quarters of the 2010 fiscal
year, Amazon's operating margin was 4.4% and its net margin was 3.5%).


Also, Amazon is able to take advantage of the existing delivery infrastructure (U.S. Postal
Service, UPS, FedEx (NYSE:FDX), etc.).


Netflix's old business was highly successful for similar reasons: customers could access a
full selection of movies at an excellent price, and Netflix could piggyback on the existing
delivery infrastructure.


But Netflix's new streaming business doesn't have the same advantages. While
$7.99/month for unlimited streaming is an excellent price, the selection is very weak and
Netflix may soon encounter obstacles to unlimited usage of the internet, as we discussed
earlier.


Conclusion


We don't think there are any easy answers for Netflix. It is already having to pay much
more for streaming content and may soon have to pay for bandwidth usage as well, which
will result in both margin compression (Netflix's margins are currently double Amazon's)
and also increased prices to its customers, which will slow growth.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UPS

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FDX
5/23/2018 Whitney Tilson: Why We're Short Netflix - Netflix, Inc. (NASDAQ:NFLX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/242320-whitney-tilson-why-were-short-netflix 22/98


