5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 1/35


Please Note: Blog posts are not selected, edited or screened


by Seeking Alpha editors.


Barrett Business
Services (BBSI): A
Tick-Tick-Ticking
Time Bomb
Sep. 16, 2014 12:41 PM ET75 comments | Includes: Barrett…


Today we shared our research and opinion on Barrett Business Services
(NASDAQ:BBSI). Highlights of our opinion/report are below, with our full
opinion found here: www.scribd.com/doc/239934271/Barrett-Bus...


IMPORTANT - Please read this Disclaimer in its entirety before continuing to
read our research opinion. You should do your own research and due diligence
before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered
herein. We strive to present information accurately and cite the sources and
analysis that help form our opinion. As of the date this opinion is posted, the
author of this report has a short position in the company covered herein and
stands to realize gains in the event that the price of the stock declines. The
author does not provide any advanced warning of future reports to others.
Following publication of this report, the author may transact in the securities of
the company, and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter
regardless of our initial opinion. To the best of our ability and belief, all
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained
from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However, such
information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind - whether
express or implied. The author of this report makes no representations,
express or implied, as to the timeliness or completeness of any such
information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice and the author
does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the
information contained herein. This is not an offer to buy any security, nor shall
any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such
offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BBSI

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BBSI

http://www.scribd.com/doc/239934271/Barrett-Business-Services-BBSI-A-Tick-Tick-Ticking-Time-Bomb
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 2/35


------------------------------------------


We believe Barrett Business Services (BBSI) operates with a precarious
business model and substantial reserve deficiencies, which has created
immense blow-up risk for public market investors. The combination of
aggressive growth into the pernicious California workers' compensation market
and minimal transparency regarding a recently disclosed reserve study has
created an un-investable stock. Our work suggests BBSI has systematically
under reserved, which has resulted in materially overstated earnings and a
high probability of a massive reserve charge. With only three covering sell-side
analysts (none of whom appear to have any insurance domain expertise based
on a collective coverage universe that includes movie theatres, executive
staffing, water dispensers, and ecommerce solutions), the combustible issues
at BBSI have largely escaped investor scrutiny. That should change with our
report, which includes a compendium of forensic issues, as well as background
on BBSI's model and end markets.


Based on our analysis of 2013 incremental adverse development (applied to
2012 claims expense), we believe BBSI may have overstated earnings by
57%. Depending on the degree to which BBSI's reserves may be inadequate,
there are scenarios discussed herein which would completely wipe out BBSI's
previously reported profits. In addition to arguing our belief that BBSI has
overstated past earnings, we outline why BBSI appears to be in blatant
violation of U.S. GAAP accounting. Our accounting concerns are amplified by a
2014 lawsuit brought by a long tenured branch manager accusing BBSI C-
Suite executives of "effectively cooking the books to create inflated profit
margins to entice interest in BBSI stock in violation of SEC regulations."[i]
Unsurprisingly, we have been unable to find any disclosures in BBSI's public
filings about the existence of the lawsuit and associated incendiary charges.
BBSI's auditor is tiny Moss Adams, who does not even list insurance as an area
of expertise on its website.


It is well understood that insurance companies can hide long-term economic
liabilities for extended periods of time. However, a recently announced reserve
study should act as the catalyst to publicly expose the magnitude of BBSI's
reserve hole. The dramatic shift in IBNR and case reserves are additional red
flags, with the latter inexplicably increasing from $51 million to nearly $93
million in BBSI's most recent quarter. Based on our analysis, if BBSI simply



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BBSI
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 3/35


matched the reserve coverage of other PEOs and insurance companies, a
charge between $69 million to $280 million would be required. For
perspective, BBSI's shareholder equity at 6/30/14 was just $74 million. A
reserve charge representing just a fraction of our estimate would likely
eliminate years of pretax earnings, while creating uncertainty over BBSI's
profitability and ongoing business model.


Adding even more asymmetry to BBSI's stock is the new fronting agreement
with ACE. Should the reserve study (or other issues discussed herein) cause
ACE to non-renew its fronting agreement, BBSI's corporate profile could be
impaired with no replacement to renew its California business.


Under a rosy scenario analysis that assumes BBSI is somehow able to delay
reserve charges, we still believe the stock will revalue significantly lower to
account for balance sheet risk and incremental earnings pressure from
regulatory changes occurring on January 1, 2015. Generously assuming
benign outcomes for many of the issues identified in this report, we still
believe fair value for BBSI's stock is $29.00 per share, which is 50% below its
recent price. The $29.00 per share scenario assumes the company is NOT
required to take significant reserve charges to address its thin reserve
position, has no negative changes in its ACE fronting agreement, and no
restatement of past results for inappropriate reserving practices occur. On the
other hand, if we are correct about the considerable hole in BBSI's reserve, we
believe there are a plethora of long-tail scenarios that could cause the stock
price to go much, much lower. We encourage all shareholders (and sell-
side promoters) without insurance expertise to consult an insurance
expert to independently verify our analysis and conclusions.


Our report contains several sections focused on relevant background
information on BBSI, workers' comp, as well as the California PEO dynamics.
Other sections are specific to the problems we have identified at BBSI,
including detailed analysis examining BBSI's reserving practices and
business/financial models. For those with time constraints, we would
encourage you to jump directly to sections 4, 6, 7, and 8, which provide the
most specific analysis and discussion into the significant risks and "meat" of
our BBSI opinion. If you can only read one section in its entirety, please see
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 4/35


section 6 ("Severely Inadequate Reserves May Require a Significant Charge").
Sections 1-3 provide relevant, yet admittedly boring background. The following
segments are covered in this report:


1) Investors Should View BBSI as an Insurance Company - BBSI is a
PEO with a small staffing business. The PEO represents approximately 95% of
gross revenues. BBSI competes in the challenging market of providing
workers' compensation insurance for blue collar employers. Further, most of its
exposure growth has come in California, which now represents roughly 74% of
net revenues. Over the past three years, the new management team more
than doubled the company's exposure to this risky market.


2) A Brief Background on the Seedy History of PEOs - The PEO industry
has a tumultuous history that is marred by extensive fraud. In recent months,
officials tied to several PEOs were sentenced in one of the largest insurance
fraud cases ever, misappropriating $133 million of their clients' money.
According to the FBI, "Workers' compensation insurance accounts for as much
as 46 percent of small business owners' general operating expenses. Due to
this, small business owners have an incentive to shop workers' compensation
insurance on a regular basis. This has made it ripe for entities that purport to
provide workers' compensation insurance to enter the marketplace, offer
reduced premium rates, and misappropriate funds without providing
insurance."[ii]


3) California Bans PEOs - Under Senate Bill 863, all California PEO licenses,
including BBSI's, will be revoked on 1/1/15. This provision passed due to
concerns related to the financial stability and/or solvency of the industry
following PEO bankruptcies in the State. BBSI's core PEO business will
effectively be banned on 1/1/15, likely resulting in a significant growth and/or
earnings hit.


4) BBSI Losing Its License = Possible Collapse of Growth and/or
Earnings - In response to getting its license revoked, BBSI entered a fronting
agreement with ACE, a rated and admitted insurance company. We believe
management has misled investors on the financial impact of this fronting
agreement. After initially describing it as "earnings neutral," management
recently revised the estimated potential drag to 25 to 30 basis points. A 25 to
30 basis point hit relative to gross revenue would have cut 2013 earnings by
as much as one-third. BBSI's second quarter 10Q suggests the fronting costs
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 5/35


may already be 2x management's updated estimate, with approximately 66%
of its clients still not transitioned to the more expensive policy forms. We
expect significant earnings pressure as the remaining two-thirds of clients
transition to the ACE fronting arrangement.


5) A "Reserve Study" By Any Other Name Would Smell as Rancid - On
July 30, 2014 BBSI's management disclosed that a third party actuary had
been hired to conduct a reserve study of its insurance reserves. Two similar
reserve study announcements (GNW and TWGP), both with similar workers'
compensation exposure, resulted in significant stock price declines. It is
unclear why BBSI is conducting a reserve study now, but we believe ACE,
BBSI's new fronting partner, may be the driver. While management has
provided minimal transparency or detail into the reserve study, based on our
reserve analysis, we believe it is reasonable to assume ACE may not be
comfortable with BBSI's existing reserve. Our suspicion is that one of ACE's
preferred actuaries (Milliman or Willis) is conducting the study. If the third
party actuary results are not addressed appropriately, it is possible ACE will
not renew their fronting agreement with BBSI. A non-renewal could shut-down
BBSI in California post SB 863.


6) Severely Inadequate Reserves May Require a Significant Charge -
We believe the ongoing reserve study will reveal a large hole in BBSI's reserve
position. Our in-depth review suggests BBSI may be required to recognize a
material charge to substantially increase its loss reserves. We analyzed five
significant red flags at BBSI: 1) persistent prior year reserve development, 2)
exposure, revenue, and claims payment growth well in excess of reserve
growth, 3) irreconcilably low short-term reserves, 4) extremely thin IBNR
levels, and 5) reserve levels well below paid claims. Each of these red flags
suggests BBSI has severely inadequate reserves. Further, our analysis
suggests BBSI met their earnings guidance in the second quarter 2014 by
dramatically under accruing claim expenses. Based on BBSI's low level of
short-term reserves, and the decline of short-term reserves as a percentage of
overall reserves, we believe BBSI will need to take a charge of at least $30
million. Our analysis concludes a charge of this magnitude would be required
to simply increase short-term reserves to a level that would cover claim
payments over the next twelve months. Additionally, BBSI's SEC filings
illuminate a dramatic shift in IBNR and case reserves, with the latter
inexplicably increasing from $51 million to nearly $93 million in the most
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 6/35


recent quarter. Generally, IBNR makes up a substantial portion of long-tail
insurance reserves. However, IBNR constitutes just 24% of BBSI's reserves.
BBSI will need to take a charge of approximately $63 million to move its IBNR
inline with a comparable group of workers' compensation insurers. We show
how BBSI's run-rate of paid claims would deplete their reserves significantly
faster than the comp group, despite BBSI's rapid exposure growth (and the
backward looking nature of paid claims versus the supposedly forward looking
nature of reserves). According to our analysis, matching the reserve coverage
of other PEOs and insurance companies would require BBSI to recognize a
charge between $69 million and $280 million.


7) BBSI's Reserving Practices & Accounting Appear to Violate GAAP
Resulting in Overstated Earnings


Management's public description of its reserving practices appears to violate
U.S. GAAP accounting, specifically FAS 60. Management recently explained its
accounting approach, which indeed matches BBSI's historical financials.
Neither their explanation, nor the historical financials appear to conform to
U.S. GAAP. We clearly analyze how reserve accruals related to prior accident
years constitute an inexplicably large percentage of the total reserve accrual.
The consistently high accrual for prior years is inconsistent with other PEOs
and insurance companies. As a result of its unorthodox accounting, we believe
BBSI has dramatically overstated past earnings. Applying the incremental
adverse development in 2013 to claims expense the prior year, suggests that
2012 EPS was overstated by 57%. We believe an accounting restatement may
be required, which would result in substantially lower historical earnings.
BBSI's auditor is Moss Adams, who does not appear to audit other insurance
companies, or even list insurance as a practice area.


8) Insurance Subsidiary Inconsistencies & a Lawsuit Accusing BBSI of
"Cooking the Books"


Results within a BBSI statutory insurance subsidiary show deteriorating
growth, earnings, and a miniscule reserve position. These results filed with
state insurance regulators are inconsistent with reported consolidated trends.
Ecole Insurance, which is wholly owned by BBSI, discloses contact information
and addresses that do not appear to match any of BBSI's disclosed offices.
Further, it appears Ecole shares an address with a Home Warranty Insurer,
while listing a "Statutory Statement Contact" that appears to be a Beecher
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 7/35


Carlson employee based in Hawaii. Further adding to our overall suspicion, a
recent lawsuit filed by a 10-year branch manager accuses BBSI's CEO and the
company of "manipulating the bottom line to avoid paying bonuses to
managers," and "effectively 'cooking the books' to create inflated profit
margins to entice interest in BBSI stock in violation of SEC regulations." We
have been unable to corroborate these accusations, however taken with
numerous other management misrepresentations that we believe exist, the
litigation raises incremental flags.


9) California Workers' Compensation Destruction (brief background) -
The California workers' compensation market has a treacherous history, with
numerous stock market examples of investor losses in companies tied to this
market. In the last downturn, carriers representing nearly 1/3 of the market
failed due to significant reserve issues.[iii] More recently, investors in TWGP,
MIG, EIG, and QBE AU have experienced steep losses following reserve issues
tied to California workers' compensation. We believe BBSI investors will follow
in these footsteps.


10) Deterioration of California Loss Trends Should Pressure BBSI -
California workers' compensation insurers have reported a deterioration in
underwriting results. A recent state insurance authority report found ominous
trends in frequency and severity of loss costs. EIG recently took a large
reserve charge related to its California workers' compensation business,
warning, "We believe these [deteriorating] trends are an issue for us and for
any workers' compensation insurance company doing business in California."
BBSI has 74% of net revenues in California, with a heavy risk concentration in
the exact areas experiencing increasing adverse claim trends.


11) ObamaCare & California State Fund = Risk of Large Client
Departures and Negative Growth - It is unclear if the employer mandate
under the Affordable Care, which goes into effect 1/1/15, will define large
employers (50 or more) at the PEO level or the client level. If at the PEO level,
we believe BBSI could lose a significant number of its clients. We are unable to
reconcile BBSI's assertion that a high percentage of its clients offer healthcare.
Our rudimentary analysis leads us to believe management may be taking
liberties with certain qualitative commentary. After nearly eight years of
contracting premiums and ceding market share, the California State Fund
appears to be increasing its competitive positioning. After a major
5/19/2018 Barrett Business Services (BBSI): A Tick-Tick-Ticking Time Bomb - Copperfield Research | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/instablog/890075-copperfield-research/3269815-barrett-business-services-bbsi-a-tick-tick-ticking-time-bomb 8/35


