5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 1/15


VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1
Oct. 1, 2014 7:02 AM ET26 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


VirnetX's expert showed damages for VPN on demand equating to enormous
downside to the stock.


VirnetX misleading investors.


VirnetX patents remain at risk of invalidation.


In his book, "Fooling Some of the People All of the Time," David Einhorn recounts his
encounters with employees at Allied Capital and Wall Street analysts who covered the
stock that disputed his work while readily admitting that they had not read or seen his
presentation. While it seems that VirnetX (AMEX: VHC) is aware that we have written
about them, it appears to us that they are purposefully obfuscating the truth. The CEO
during his "fireside" chat as well as VirnetX's press release on September 19th, did
nothing to refute what we argued in our most recent article. In this article, we will compare
what VirnetX said in their press releases and conference call to what we have written.


During the "fireside" chat, the CEO made a point to say that VirnetX's patents had been
validated by the courts. We fully agree that the district court and Court of Appeals for the
Federal Circuit (CAFC) have upheld the patents asserted against Apple (NASDAQ: AAPL)
and we even pointed this out in our article. However, we also pointed out that the courts
and PTAB have different standards for examining patents and that patents that are upheld
at the district court level can be overturned by the PTAB. The CAFC can then agree with
the PTAB that the patents are invalid and throw out all non-final judgments. This sequence
of events was what played out in Fresenius, USA Inc. v. Baxter International, Inc. which is
described in this article. Therefore, while the courts have upheld VirnetX's patents, we
believe that there is a lurking danger from the reexamination proceedings at the PTAB that
shareholders may be unaware of and that VirnetX seems unwilling to acknowledge.


In its press release, VirnetX also noted that "The USPTO has terminated the
reexamination proceedings with respect to certain claims of VirnetX's U.S. Patent Nos.
6,502,135; 6,839,759; 7,418,504; and 7,921,211." It is important to note the term "certain
claims" in this sentence. The claims that were dismissed are of no relevance to the lawsuit
against Apple because the dismissed claims were not being litigated. The claims being



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VHC

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2506445-virnetx-patents-at-high-risk-of-being-invalidated

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAPL

http://www.pharmapatentsblog.com/2013/07/08/fresenius-escapes-25-million-damages-award-based-on-invalidation-of-baxter-patent-in-ex-parte-reexamination/
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 2/15


litigated are still under reexamination. The PTAB noted that the "petition to terminate
reexamination of the remaining claims of the '135 patent under reexamination, i.e., claims
1-9 and 13-18, in the '1679 reexamination proceeding is dismissed." Put simply, this
means that the reexaminations are continuing with regards to claims 1-9 and 13-18. Since
Apple's VPN On Demand product was accused of infringing claims 1, 3, 7 and 8 of the
'135 patent, it remains likely that the PTAB will uphold its initial findings of invalidity for
these patent claims and that all of the patent claims which Apple was found to have
infringed will be invalidated. Upon an invalidation, Apple would owe nothing for VPN On
Demand's alleged infringement of this patent.


We also do not want to let the concerns we raised around the problems that a time bar
pose for VirnetX be ignored. As we pointed out in our last article, we believe that the
reason VirnetX has yet to launch lawsuits against other parties is because VirnetX knows
that if it sues someone else, the new defendant will not be time barred from filing new
IPRs. Since past IPRs have only been rejected due to technicalities around the time of
their filing relative to the date of a lawsuit being filed, there is a very high probability that
IPRs from an entirely new entity would be accepted. If the PTAB subsequently invalidates
the patents before the Apple case finishes, then Apple would no longer be liable for any
damages. We believe that VirnetX is well aware of this risk and does not want to do
anything that could put its patents in further jeopardy. VirnetX even admits in its press
releases that the dismissals of certain Apple and Microsoft (NASDAQ: MSFT) claims were
due to the parties being time barred from filing IPRs. Indeed, for the claims where the time
bar did not exist, Microsoft had its claims accepted. VirnetX has been lucky that it has not
had to actually argue the merits of the patents in front of the PTAB. Because VirnetX faces
the risk of additional IPRs, we are very skeptical of VirnetX's claims to be close to
additional licenses. After all, why would a company make a licensing deal with VirnetX
when it can file an IPR and see what happens over the course of a couple of years?


During the "fireside" chat, we were struck by several other claims made by the CEO. First,
he told investors that the company's cash burn was, "less than $1 million per month in
burn rate…" That claim certainly does not square with what the financials actually show.
As we pointed out in our earlier article, the company ended last year with $38.9 million in
cash (defined as cash plus investments held for sale) and now 6 months later, it is down to
$25.7 million - or about $2 million per month of cash burn. We have trouble seeing why
the cash burn will decline given the ongoing legal expenses. The CEO also told investors
that the CAFC had determined what the royalty rate would be going forward and that the
only thing left would be what the base that you apply that royalty rate to would be. During
the "fireside" chat, CEO Kendall Larson stated, "I also want to point out that the guidance



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MSFT
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 3/15


for the royalty has already been given. The guidance is use the licenses, you asked me
the question earlier about the patents that have been licensed. We have comprehensive
patent portfolio licenses with several strategic vendors such as Avaya, Siemens, NEC, all
those licenses that were done are all over 1%, and so the guidance that the Federal
Circuit gave us is to use the VirnetX licensing model as our guide. All of those are over
1%." However, this is simply not true. Nowhere in the CAFC opinion does the court say
that only the royalty base and not the rate is still up for dispute. In fact, the CAFC opinion
even noted, "Finally, Apple notes that the sixth license covered sixty-eight VirnetX patents,
and was therefore much broader than the license to four patents Apple would be seeking
in the hypothetical negotiation. It also equated to a 0.24% royalty rate, which is
significantly lower than the 1-2% rate Weinstein testified VirnetX would accept." Even if
VirnetX were to ultimately achieve this 1% rate, we showed in an earlier article that at this
rate and using the $29 royalty base that was undisputed by the CAFC, there is not much
value to VirnetX's stock. The company also left unaddressed the open question of whether
VPN On Demand deserves a much lower royalty base than FaceTime does. The higher
royalties that might be due for FaceTime may never be realized because based on Apple's
description of how FaceTime works, the new definition of "secure communications link"
appears to rule out infringement by FaceTime since the anonymity limitation is not met.


Of the three damages theories VirnetX originally presented, only one attempted to
apportion between FaceTime and VPN On Demand. Even though we know that the
damages VirnetX sought were too high, we know that the apportionment was
approximately 75% to FaceTime and 25% to VPN on Demand. As was noted in the CAFC
ruling, "This theory yielded a $708 million demand, consisting of $566 million for products
including both FaceTime and VPN On Demand, and $142 million for those including only
VPN On Demand." (Link) This section of the CAFC ruling clearly talks about VPN On
Demand having significantly less value than FaceTime. If only 25% of damages should
have been attributed to VPN On Demand, then the jury award would have been $92.3
million. However, this $92.3 million number gets further reduced after accounting for legal
contingency fees as well as SAIC's portion of the award. As we see it, VirnetX simply
collecting an ongoing royalty for VPN On Demand is unlikely to bring VirnetX to
profitability. Below we lay out our math on why we believe this:



http://www.cafc.uscourts.gov/images/stories/opinions-orders/13-1489.Opinion.9-12-2014.1.PDF
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 4/15


Keep in mind that the starting point for this calculation of $142 million does not represent 1
year of damages, but rather multiple years of damages on a variety of products including
iPhones, iPods, and iPads. VirnetX claimed that there was infringement going all the way
back to the original iPhone and the iPod Touch, both of which were launched in 2007 while
the iPad was launched in 2010. There is no good way to know how many devices or how
long a period of alleged infringement this verdict covered, but we do know it would be
incorrect to think that VHC would collect $63.7 million a year. If we assume the damages
in this case cover a blended period of 3 years, that would bring the average royalty per
year down to $21.2 million. This figure would be lower than VirnetX's current cash burn
which is over $25 million a year. Therefore, over the next 4 years before the patents expire
in October 2018, VirnetX would collect almost $85 million in royalties. Unfortunately, they
would also burn over $100 million in cash over that time period leaving nothing but dilutive
equity raises for shareholders.


Even if VHC were to be awarded the full $142 million, this would yield a value of only $98
million to VirnetX:
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 5/15


Once again, keep in mind this $98 million does not represent 1 year of damages, but
rather multiple years of damages. If again we assume the damages in this case cover a
period of 3 years, that would bring the average royalty per year down to $32.7 million. This
figure would be greater than VirnetX's current cash burn of over $25 million a year, but
would only leave around $7.7 million for shareholders or approximately $0.15 a share
each year. However, since the patents would expire in October 2018, there would only be
about another four years of collections or approximately $0.60 per share incremental.
Thus, a best case scenario (which we believe is unlikely) would result in a total value of
$2.50 per share for VirnetX.


Finally, we would like to address the meaning of the CAFC upholding the jury verdict of no
invalidity. Many shareholders seem to believe that this is binding on everyone. It is not. It
is only binding on Apple and only then when the case is final in all respects. This case is
unlikely to be final in all respects until 2018 and that means that Apple's ongoing Inter
Partes Reexamination proceedings can proceed. If Apple is successful in the ongoing
reexaminations, then VirnetX's entire case would be dismissed. Also, in the meantime,
anyone else who gets sued will get their own crack at showing invalidity, and if VirnetX
ever loses (either by a jury or the PTAB), the finding of invalidity becomes binding on
VirnetX and it can't sue anyone over the invalidated patents. Some shareholders don't
understand that fights over validity will go on until the patents expire, especially if VirnetX
threatens others with the same patents. As for the patent expiration, as was pointed out by
one commenter there seems to be some contention over when the patents expire. All four
of these patents claim priority to application 60/106,261. This application was filed in
October 1998 and since the patents have a 20 year life to them, they expire in 2018.


In conclusion we heard nothing in the CEO's "fireside" chat or in VirnetX's press release
which refuted our opinion that the patents remain highly susceptible to being invalidated
and that the stock is worth well less than $1.00 per share.
5/18/2018 VirnetX Obfuscates The Truth: Stock Worth Under $1 - VirnetX Holding Corporation (NYSEMKT:VHC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2533465-virnetx-obfuscates-the-truth-stock-worth-under-1 6/15


