5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 1/12


HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V
Oct. 16, 2014 6:03 PM ET5 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


Numerous policies and actions indicate that HCI is a poor steward of shareholder
capital.


HCI's executive and director compensation is excessive by DFI standards and in
some cases exceeds that of far larger organizations.


The company's strategy of investing in illiquid assets is misguided at best and raises
concerns regarding the ability to pay claims in the event of a catastrophe.


Introduction


This is the fifth of RH Analytics' multi-part short thesis on the HCI Group (NYSE:HCI). In it,
we continue our discussion on why we believe the company's business model is deeply
flawed and the stock significantly overvalued.


The analysis examines several company practices, including compensation, investments,
new business development and the propensity to pursue stock buybacks. In our view,
these areas are, individually and collectively, red flags and raise serious concerns
regarding management's willingness and ability to be prudent stewards of shareholder
capital.


Compensation, an issue discussed in other publications, is clearly excessive when
compared to packages at other DFIs. Indeed, a consulting company was engaged to
evaluate outside director compensation; following the review, compensation for the group
was slashed -90%. Apparently, we are not the only ones who believe that nearly $1M in
total compensation for a directorship is excessive. Additionally, in our opinion, the
structure of Paresh Patel's compensation agreement creates the potential for serious
conflicts of interests.


Compensation is but one of several issues. From investment policy, to underwriting flood
insurance and engaging in share buybacks at record valuations, in our opinion
management appears to make either self-serving financial decisions or decisions that
simply display a lack of financial acumen.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 2/12


As a note: We contacted the company to give HCI's management the opportunity to
address our concerns. The company did not respond to our attempts to initiate a dialog.


Compensation: Creating a Wealthy Management Team


We think executive compensation at HCI is an issue that deserves close attention. It is
extremely high by group standards, contains structures that could misalign interests, and
displays hard to explain disparities between classes of executives.


We begin our analysis with a review of the CEO's compensation package. The table below
shows the total compensation for Paresh Patel and the CEOs of other DFIs.


2013 DFI CEO Pay Comparative Analysis


Source: Company proxy statements, FNHC 10-K.


Mr. Patel topped the league in 2013 with $15M in total compensation, which includes
salary, bonus, equity and other elements. $10.6M of the compensation is tied to equity
with a vesting schedule that limits the immediate financial value of the stock, but conveys
the immediate right to dividends. Mr. Patel's 400,000 share restricted stock grant in 2013
vests 100,000 shares at a time over four years with stock price targets. The first 100,000
shares vested in May 2014.


On a cash basis, Mr. Patel made $4.1M in salary and bonuses. Although the cash
payments were 7x those of the CEOs of Federated (NASDAQ:FNHC) and United
(NASDAQ:UIHC), it is less than the even more egregious $6.5M paid to Sean Downes,
CEO of Universal (NYSEMKT:UVE). The industry topping cash compensation of both Mr.
Patel and Mr. Downs were driven by bonus schemes that include cash payments of 3-4%
of pre-tax profits.


HCI's 8-K filed on 1/14/14 provides details on Mr. Patel's 2014 package: noting that if
EBITDA is above $62.5M between the 12-month period of 12/1/13-11/30/14, Mr. Patel is
entitled to receive a cash bonus equal to 3.25% of EBITDA. There are provisions that
require the cash to be returned if the company restates financial results.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/FNHC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UIHC

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/UVE

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/10/16/27754143-14134388635724232-RH-Analytics_origin.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 3/12


We believe that compensation structures in this form can create conflicts of interest. The
practice contains financial incentives that may encourage management to engage in
aggressive business and/or accounting practices. While risks and accounting gimmickry
may take time to surface, personal financial gain is more immediate.


As an example of how current recorded profits can be a poor guide for executive
compensation, consider the following: in our reinsurance section, we detailed how HCI's
reinsurance contracts contain 'profit sharing' provisions. HCI accrues the non-cash
benefits quarterly as reduction of premiums ceded. However, as HCI states, the accrued
profits can be charged back to earnings in the event of a catastrophe.


The table below shows earnings attributed to the reinsurance contracts and our estimate
of the contribution to Mr. Patel's 2013 and 2014 bonuses.


Total Accrued Profits from Reinsurance


Source: Company filings and estimates.


In 2013, HCI booked $12.5M in pre-tax profits that can be charged back. Using the 3.25%
rate, we estimate that $407,000 of Mr. Patel's cash bonus in the year was derived from the
reinsurance structures. Although the $12.5M in conditional profits can disappear in the
future, the same cannot be said of Mr. Patel's bonus - the cash has been paid out.


As of Q2'14, HCI had booked $10.5M in conditional profits or $21M on an annualized
basis. For 2014 Mr. Patel will likely receive nearly $600,000 in cash bonuses derived from
the financial structure of the reinsurance contracts alone.


We are at a loss to understand what benefits the profit sharing agreements provide
shareholders. In fact, rather than providing benefits they could turn out to be the source for
a nasty shock should HCI need to take a charge for profits already accrued. However, the
financial features of the contracts provide Mr. Patel with immediate, tangible, cash benefits
on an annual basis.


Other executives at HCI are well paid, too, though none approach Mr. Patel's level. The
table below shows executive compensation firm-wide at HCI in 2013.


Payoff for Management
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 4/12


Source: HCI 2013 proxy.


Mr. Patel's salary and bonus of $4.1M is nearly 8x the next highest paid individual,
Anthony Saravanos, at $1.3M. The remaining executives were paid in range of roughly
$300,000 to $600,000.


Directors at HCI were compensated in a spectacular fashion in 2013, as exhibited below.


HCI 2013 Director Compensation


Source: HCI 2013 proxy.


The table indicates that HCI's directors received nearly $1M in total compensation in 2013.
In our view, it is extremely high for a $450M market cap company. In fact, the proxy for the
$7.3B market cap Everest Re Group (NYSE:RE), shows that total compensation for a
director was approximately $330,000. Despite the vast difference in size, HCI's directors
were paid 3x those of RE.


Director compensation packages are significantly higher than those of a number of
presumably important members of management, such as the President and the CFO.
Why would outside directors have total compensation nearly double that of the President
and CFO, including equity incentives worth over a $500,000? We find it baffling. Indeed,
the lopsided pay packages makes us wonder what drives compensation at the firm.


Comparison of aggregate compensation across DFIs shows that HCI's costs are
significantly higher than most its competitors. The table below shows various
compensation measures for the group.


2013 DFI Compensation



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/RE

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/10/16/27754143-14134392207260258-RH-Analytics_origin.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 5/12


Source: Company reports and estimates.


As shown above, total executive compensation at HCI of $17.8M is second only to UVE's
$22.1M. It should be noted, however, that Universal Insurance is more than twice the size
of HCI as measured by gross premiums written.


Total director compensation of $6.4M at HCI was 8.6x the average for the group. On an
individual basis, HCI directors received total compensation of 7.4x the industry average.


HCI's $24.1M in combined executive and director compensation was the highest of the
group. The much larger UVE was close behind. HCI and United Property were of similar
size in 2013 and make for a good comparison. Gross premiums written in the year were
$337M and $317M for HCI and UIHC, respectively. Despite the similarity in size, HCI's
total compensation expense for 2013 was 6.6x that of UIHC.


Viewing compensation as a percentage of gross premiums written allows for comparison
across companies of different size. HCI paid compensation equivalent to 7.6% of
premiums written, or 3x the industry average of 2.5%. Heritage Insurance (NYSE:HRTG)
was second to HCI having spent 5.1% of premiums on compensation.


In our view, it isn't surprising that the two takeout companies have the highest
compensation costs. The profitability of takeout companies is driven by state subsidies
that are presumably compensation for assuming risks the private market would not take.
The subsidies manifest as high short-term profitability. Rather than retain the subsidized
profits to build the surplus, much of the cash is "upstreamed" via the MGA fee to the
holding company level and paid out as salaries and bonuses. This is one reason why
despite subsidies, HCI has taken 7-years to build a $117M surplus, yet can pay executives
$24.1M in a single year!


Florida's takeout programs have long been criticized for encouraging short-term
profiteering and transferring public capital into private pockets. The incentives embedded
in the system encourage thinly capitalized companies to underwrite immense risks



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HRTG

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2014/10/16/27754143-14134395632649724-RH-Analytics_origin.png
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 6/12


supported by small surpluses while paying management as much as possible as they wait
for the inevitable storm. Given the slow surplus growth and high compensation at HCI, it
seems a valid criticism.


Equity compensation viewed in the context of company buybacks creates the impression
that value is being extracted from shareholders and transferred to management.


Total stock awards to HCI management and directors in the year were 616,000 shares,
400,000 of which went to Mr. Patel. The awards accounted for 5.5% of shares outstanding
at the end of 2013. It is interesting that the December 2013 stock buyback of 623,000
shares is nearly the same number awarded to management. The buyback prevented the
shareholder dilution that would have accompanied such a large award. However
admirable it may be to prevent dilution, as discussed later in our analysis, the buyback
was contingent on a debt offering. Thus, management essentially saddled shareholders
with $30M in debt to pay for stock they awarded themselves.


We have noted that the vesting schedule limits the immediate value of share awards to
management. However, management is entitled to dividends on their restricted stock
ownership prior to vesting. This can be quite lucrative. As an example, on 4/8/13 HCI
declared a $0.225 dividend payable on 6/21/13 with a record date of 5/17/13. The 5/17
record date is one day after shares were awarded to Mr. Patel and the directors. It's hard
to believe the timing is a coincidence. HCI paid $90,000 in dividends in June 2013 on Mr.
Patel's 400,000 stock award and an additional $33,750 for the directors. What a difference
a day makes. From our perspective, the timing of the award is particularly unsavory in that
it has the appearance of an intentional transfer of wealth from shareholder's to
management.


HCI's proxy notes that the compensation committee did not rely on compensation
consultants to determine executive pay in 2013; it relied on its own judgment. However,
the company did engage a consultant to review 2013 director pay after the fact.
Consequently, 2014 compensation for outside directors will be cut to $97,325, which is in
the range of other DFIs. With an -89% pay cut, it appears shareholders would have
benefited from a firm-wide review, rather than one limited to outside directors.


Also In The Bag of Tricks


Our issues with HCI's operations extend beyond their basic business model as a takeout
insurer. We believe the company's investment program, new business development
initiatives and propensity for share buy-backs are deeply flawed as well.
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 7/12


1. Investment Program: Channeling Warren Buffett


The investment portfolios of insurance companies are typically mundane affairs.
Strategies for most companies are outsourced to asset managers and tend to be
dominated by fixed income instruments. Berkshire Hathaway is a notable exception.


HCI has an investment strategy that attempts to mimic Berkshire - inappropriately, in our
view. Mr. Patel cited Warren Buffett and Berkshire Hathaway as inspiration in an October
2013 interview with the Tampa Bay Business Journal when explaining the unusual
investments. In the article, Mr. Patel stated that Berkshire owns different types of
businesses with a common goal to "let folks do what they do best" and "as long as you
structure it correctly, it works". We do not find that a compelling argument to justify the
strategy.


As an example of an HCI investment, in November 2011 the company purchased what
was then a social media company based in India called Unthink Technologies, which is
now Exzeo. The company was purchased for its software development skills. When we
began our research, HCI and the company website stated that Exzeo was an IT company
that "optimizes human capital". In effort to understand the business, we tried to sign up for
the free service twice, but the registration procedure failed.


Sometime over the last several months, Exzeo appears to have abandoned its previous
business model. Exzeo's website currently bills the company as an offshore software
design and consulting company. HCI has changed the way it refers to Exzeo in its investor
presentations, as is evident below.


From HCI's April 1, 2014 Investor Presentation


From HCI's August 20, 2014 Presentation
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 8/12


Exzeo was about human capital, now it is business process management. It should be
noted that although HCI's marketing materials have been altered, legal documents have
not: the Q2'14 10-Q still describes Exzeo's "human capital optimization" platform and
notes the free service, though neither seem to exist any longer.


We do not think the original investment was substantial. However, although the purchase
price may have been small, ongoing expenses are not. According to HCI's Q2'14 10-Q,
the company has 78 employees in India. At an estimated $1,500 per month the annual
employee compensation expense is $1.4M. Adding to that $1.8M to lease the 15,000
square foot facility brings total annual cost to $3.2M.


We could not find any references to third-party customers on Exzeo's website. Investors
should hope that the software developed for HCI is more valuable and successful than
what has been produced for outside consumption thus far, because by all appearances
the results for the first 3-years of operations are negligible at best.


HCI also has real estate operations under its Greenleaf Capital brand. Specifically, the
company has purchased office space, and investment real estate on Treasure Island and
Tierra Verde, Florida, both of which are coastal islands in Tampa Bay. The properties
includes offices, retail space, two marinas and a restaurant all of which appear to be
operated by the company.


Additionally, as we discussed in our Q2'14 review, HCI recently entered into a $9.8M
agreement to finance the development of and purchase an option on a shopping center in
Florida.


As of Q2'14, HCI's $18.9M of real estate ventures account for roughly 10.6% of the
company's investment portfolio. We find the idea of a Florida property insurer investing its
surplus in Florida coastal real estate misguided at best. In the event of a storm the asset
value could become impaired and market liquidity for real estate evaporate. That is exactly
the time a Florida insurer may need to access investment principal to pay claims.


HCI's investment strategy is disturbing on several levels apart from what appears to be a
clear lack of success at Exzeo. In our view, an insurer such as HCI that is underwriting
business at leverage ratios 3x-4x the industry average should not invest its small surplus
in illiquid assets. Further, Florida insurers should certainly not invest their surplus in real
estate, the same asset they insure. The company's ability to pay claims at risk, which
should be of acute concern for policyholders.


2. Underwriting Flood Insurance



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2409645-hci-group-q214-results-show-business-model-strains?page=2
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 9/12


In January 2014, HCI became the first private company to underwrite flood insurance in
Florida. Flood has long been treated as an "uninsurable risk" by most insurance
companies. As a consequence, flood is dominated by the National Flood Insurance
Program. Recent and pending price hikes for flood insurance have been triggered by
efforts to reform the nearly bankrupt agency.


Until recently, HCI management and a number of sell-side analysts presented flood as
HCI's next growth driver. However, not all industry participants view flood as an attractive
opportunity.


UIHC's CEO characterized the opportunity with flood insurance on the Q4'13 call thusly:


I think doubling down on the risk in Florida by underwriting flood, which is an ill-
understood peril and very difficult to model...doesn't strike us as something high up
in your priority list.


We think that it is highly unlikely HCI has discovered a misunderstood and mispriced risk.
It's more likely that flood is like a takeout - it can appear very profitable short-term, but
long-term returns are typically negative.


The environment for flood insurance in Florida is highly fluid. It appears as if the
envisioned price hikes that were driving HCI's willingness underwrite the risk have not
materialized. On the Q2'14 conference call, management described flood's contribution to
results as "negligible".


Given the extreme long-term losses associated with flooding, the disappointing
underwriting performance is probably the best possible outcome for shareholders.


3. Value Destroying Share Buybacks


On the Q4'13 conference call, management referenced a $29M share buyback that took
place during the fourth quarter. We examined the 12/12/13 8-K that disclosed the
transaction. The basic terms of the deal are shown below.


A Timely Purchase


Source: 12/12/13 8-K
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 10/12


The 8-K states that the deal was structured as a pre-paid forward contract and that the
deal was contingent on a bond offering. HCI's 10-K casts some additional light on the
transaction. It notes that: "the company determined that the forward contract does not
meet the characteristic of a derivative instrument and, as such, the transaction resulted in
an immediate reduction of the shares outstanding".


The clever structure of the deal allowed it to reduce share count immediately, irrespective
of whether or not the shares had been purchased.


Buybacks are foremost a capital allocation decision. It implies that buying stock is the best
use of capital. In other words, business operations do not offer commensurate returns on
investment. Buybacks only generate value for shareholders if the stock is bought below
intrinsic value. Typically, buybacks make most sense for companies trading below book
value. This is particularly the case with P&C insurers, which are valued on a price to book
basis, because buying back stock at high multiples erodes book value. We estimate the
impact of HCI's December 2013 buyback on book value below.


December 2013 Buyback Impact


Source: Company filings and estimates.


In our analysis, we estimate pre-buyback equity and shares by adding back the amount
spent and number of shares purchased to the respective year-end figures. We then
perform the arithmetic to derive book value per share.


Our analysis indicates that the year-end buyback cost shareholders $1.82 per share, or
reduced book value by -11%.


The structure of the buyback strikes us peculiar and convenient for management. It
allowed the buyback to reduce shares outstanding immediately, which had the impact of
negating dilution associated with the management stock grants, and maximizing the
positive impact on EPS, thus providing Wall Street with a good headline. From that
perspective, management benefited strongly from the buyback. The same cannot be said
of shareholders. The purchase price of $48 per share was approximately 3x book value
5/22/2018 HCI Group: The Wizards Of Tampa, Part V - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2568395-hci-group-the-wizards-of-tampa-part-v 11/12


