5/22/2018 HCI Group: Is Management Disregarding Shareholder Votes? - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3275125-hci-group-is-management-disregarding-shareholder-votes 1/4


HCI Group: Is Management Disregarding Shareholder Votes?
Jun. 22, 2015 2:15 PM ET4 comments
by: RH Analytics


Summary


HCI's recent annual meeting included a block vote for three directors.


Shareholders withheld the majority of votes for one director, but he appears to have
been 're-elected' to the board despite the negative voting.


Media noted that a professional proxy service had recommended against the
nominees, but HCI governance standards do not require a majority vote for
approval.


In our view, the governance standards appear sub-standard and allow management
to disregard shareholder interests.


This is merely the latest in a long list of serious concerns we have with HCI.


On May 27, the HCI Group (NYSE:HCI), held its annual meeting in Tampa, Florida. There
were two items to be voted at the meeting: a slate of three directors and ratification of the
auditor. It is the election of the directors that is of particular interest to us.


HCI announced the results of the votes in an 8-K filed with the SEC on June 1st. Reading
the results of the election and comparing them to votes cast was puzzling. The text states
that "James Macchiarola, Harish Patel and Martin Traber were elected to the board of
directors at the meeting". It then shows the number of votes cast for and withheld for each
director. We have reproduced the table below.


Director Voting Results


Source: HCI 6/1/15 8-K.


Note that the final of the three nominees, Martin Traber, had 2.3M votes 'for' and 4.7M
votes 'withheld'. In our estimation, that appears to conflict with the text that states that all
three were elected to the board of directors. It is clear to us that Mr. Traber was not
'elected', at least not if one uses the 'for' votes cast by shareholders as the measure.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/HCI
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Is Management Disregarding Shareholder Votes? - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3275125-hci-group-is-management-disregarding-shareholder-votes 2/4


A Google search on the topic yielded this article from the Tampa Bay Business Journal.
The articles states that Mr. Traber won another stint on the board despite the shareholder
vote. According to the article, Institutional Shareholder Services, or ISS, a proxy advisor,
recommended shareholders vote against all three directors. The service cited shareholder
rights and executive pay - something we have written about - noting that Paresh Patel's
pay was 592.4% above that of the next highest-paid executive officer and his
compensation was 3 times the median of CEOs at similar companies. ISS singled-out Mr.
Traber out as being non-independent apparently because HCI pays his law firm. Perhaps
it was this citation that drove the negative voting for Mr. Traber.


The article further notes that HCI does not have a majority vote standard, which requires
directors to receive support from holders of a majority of shares voted in order to be
elected or reelected to the company's board. Perhaps it is this lack of majority standard
cited by the Tampa Bay Business Journal that allows HCI to apparently disregard
shareholder votes.


HCI did not respond to the Journal's requests for comments. Nor did HCI respond to our
request to illuminate how the voting process works. We have to assume that if there were
a reasonable explanation, the company would willingly give it. In the absence of further
explanation, we are left guessing as to how the process works and, indeed, the point of
voting. Using the outcome of this election as a guide, it would appear that shareholder
votes are meaningless and shareholder participation in company governance illusory.


We admit that problematic corporate governance may not be the most significant of the
many concerns we have with the company. The lack of a business model and the
deployment of shareholder capital in strip-mall developments, private BDCs and hedge
funds are all more of more immediate concern, in our judgment. However, sub-standard
corporate governance is not immaterial. Corporate governance shapes incentives and
drives behavior. In this case, low-quality governance seemingly allows management to
ignore shareholder input on a voted issue. If management is willing to do it here, why not
disregard shareholder interests elsewhere?


Disclosure: I am/we are short HCI.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is
mentioned in this article.


 Like this article



http://www.bizjournals.com/tampabay/blog/morning-edition/2015/06/tampa-attorney-wins-another-stint-on-hci-board.html
5/22/2018 HCI Group: Is Management Disregarding Shareholder Votes? - HCI Group, Inc. (NYSE:HCI) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3275125-hci-group-is-management-disregarding-shareholder-votes 3/4


