5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 1/28


American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing?
Mar. 3, 2015 7:36 AM ET25 comments
by: Bleecker Street Research


Summary


According to channel checks, AAC performs urine drug tests 6-12x more than
necessary, contributing to outsized margins.


AAC is already subject to a lawsuit in New Jersey brought by Blue Cross Blue Shield
alleging fraudulent drug testing.


In Florida, where AAC has 51% of their total beds, the FBI has begun raiding
addiction centers that appear to be engaging in similar activities as AAC.


AAC acquired a revenue management company from the CEO and president's
spouses and then lowered their provision for doubtful accounts, boosting net income
before the IPO.


A large lock-up will come free at the end of March in four weeks, resulting in the float
quadrupling and likely weighing on the share price.


Company: American Addiction Centers (NASDAQ:AAC)


Market Cap: $710 million
Price/Earnings: 84x
Recommendation: Short
Catalysts: Alleged insurance fraud, expiration of lockup at the end of March


Investment Thesis


AAC Holdings, also known as American Addiction Centers, is likely to fall by at least 50%,
as its inappropriate insurance billing scheme comes unraveled. Due diligence reveals that
AAC subsidiaries are testing their clients 6-12x more frequently than necessary and are
then running unnecessary confirmatory tests which are then billed to insurance
companies. Such testing made up most of the 26% of commercial payor revenue
attributed to "point-of-care drug testing, quantitative laboratory services, professional
groups and other services." Moreover, this contributes to outsized net margins. In fact, it is
so profitable that the company will not reveal the margins, and it doesn't really even want



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAC
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 2/28


to talk about it. The company is already the subject of one lawsuit (in New Jersey) alleging
fraudulent billing with respect to excessive urine testing. While AAC has exited New
Jersey, the same practices are still going on in other states.


Recent FBI raids on addiction centers in Florida indicate that Florida is the next state
which will be cracking down on insurance abuses in drug testing. AAC operates heavily in
Florida, representing 51% of their 2014 bed count.


We are now seeing major crackdowns on addiction centers in Florida, prosecuting the
exact same type of violations, namely bilking insurance companies with unnecessary and
overpriced drug testing.


In this link, a West Palm Beach news station details the FBI raid on a local addiction
center (Good Decisions Sober Living), where the FBI hauled away computers and
documents in order to prosecute the suspicion of drug testing fraud.


One interviewee notes that he knew something was up when his addiction center made
him take drug tests 4 times per week, sending the insurance company the bill for as much
as $1,500.


In December, a separate incident in Del Rey Beach was similar. Two recovery centers
(Real Recovery and Halfway There) were raided by the FBI, with documents and
computers being seized.


What is happening here is obvious. In recent months, there has been a significant
increase in supervision by the Florida Association of Recovery Residences, which is trying
to crack down on the rampant insurance abuse.


With 26% of AAC's commercial payor revenues (90% of total revenues), AAC stands to
lose millions as it loses its ability to over bill insurance companies.


AAC took visible steps ahead of its IPO to potentially manipulate its earnings in order to
boost its valuation, while hiding problems such as lawsuits and related party transactions.


All of this should be expected to lead to very heavy selling pressure on the stock when the
IPO lockup expires in three weeks, freeing up over 15 million shares for trading and
quadrupling the float.


Finally, the company has a checkered past which included patient deaths in its facilities
and a stint on the pink sheets, after the company suddenly decided to stop filing its
financials with the SEC.



http://www.wpbf.com/news/fbi-raids-sober-living-condos-in-west-palm-beach/28002816

http://www.wptv.com/news/region-s-palm-beach-county/delray-beach/fbi-irs-raid-halfway-houses-in-delray-beach
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 3/28


Before getting into the alleged fraudulent drug testing that is currently ongoing, it is
important to understand the background of AAC. Fraudulent drug testing will be
discussed in detail in Section III.


Section I: Background


AAC Holdings, also known as American Addiction Centers went public last October 1st, at
$15 a share and has performed very well, rising more than 100% since the IPO to where it
currently trades at $34 a share. AAC has posted excellent numbers with revenues growing
from $28 million in 2011 to $116 million in 2013, a CAGR of 102%. In its first quarter as a
public company, revenues grew 28% year-over-year and Adjusted EBITDA rose 74%
year-over-year.


Despite this torrid growth, AAC has significant issues which could see the stock fall by as
much as 50% in the near term. Much of the reason AAC has been able to put up such
impressive numbers is the excessive and sometimes fraudulent urinary drug testing that it
performs on its patients.


According to discussions with AAC representatives, AAC facilities perform urinary drug
tests 2-3x per week versus the industry norm of 1-2x per month. AAC discloses that its
average stay is 26. In other words, AAC tests 6-12x more often than is necessary. This is
significant because AAC derives between 20-25% of its revenue from drug testing. More
importantly, this testing has an outsized effect on the bottom line, because of the massive
margins it contributes. While AAC doesn't break out how much testing contributes to the
bottom line, one can infer that they carry very high margins.


Blue Cross Blue Shield is already suing one of the companies that AAC acquired in mid-
2012 for fraudulent urine drug testing. Blue Cross Blue Shield is AAC's second largest
reimbursor, accounting for 13.1% of AAC's revenue. Despite the tiny size of the
acquisition, it was able to rack up over $6 million in fraudulent billings. Clearly, the size of
the problem within the larger AAC group is, therefore much larger than this level.


AAC can trace its origins to a reverse-merger that quit filing financials with the SEC and
was featured in a report on negligence in treatment centers in California. The report
highlighted four deaths that occurred at these facilities, before their license was eventually
revoked.


With insurance companies cracking down on fraudulent billing and testing practices, AAC
will simply not be able to put up the same kind of numbers it has in the past.
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 4/28


This article will review the history of AAC and the people involved with it before examining
the company's urine drug testing practices, as well as related party deals and changes to
allowance for doubtful accounts.


Section II: History of AAC and Deaths at A Better Tomorrow


AAC has a bit of an interesting history. There are several related companies that have
undergone several name changes along with multiple relevant individuals.


In 2004, AAC's current President Jerrod Menz (who controls 5.2 million AAC shares or
24.2% of outstanding shares) founded ABTTC, Inc., which stood for A Better Tomorrow
Today. In 2008, Mr. Menz took A Better Tomorrow public through a reverse merger with an
OTC shell. The company then changed its name to Forterus, but continued operating its
clinics under the A Better Tomorrow name. The company soon stopped filing its financials
with the SEC and became a non-reporting company. The operation of the addiction
centers was clearly running into major problems, as detailed in a 2012 report prepared for
the Senate Rules Committee by the California Senate Office of Oversight and Outcomes.
The report highlighted numerous issues at their clinics including four deaths and the
eventual revoking of one facility's treatment license.


While the report was meant to highlight the issues with the California Department of
Alcohol and Drug regulation of residential programs, it raised some shocking allegations
about what happened at A Better Tomorrow facilities.


The report highlights four deaths. Roberta McMinn, who was 68, died at an A Better
Tomorrow facility just three days after she was admitted, and according to the report, was
unable to walk under her own support when she was admitted. The report alleges:


On the day she died, McMinn was found pale and vomiting in her bed. A worker at
the Irongate house called another A Better Tomorrow office for help and changed
her shirt, according to interviews with staff members. When the second worker
arrived, the two cleaned her up again. They noticed that her skin was turning blue
and white, and called 911. The worker from the program's office told investigators he
knew CPR, but the state's report does not state that he or anyone else from the
program attempted to revive McMinn. It's unclear from the documents how long
McMinn had been vomiting and ill before someone called for an ambulance. (Pg.
14,16)



http://sooo.senate.ca.gov/sites/sooo.senate.ca.gov/files/Rogue%20Rehab%209_4_12.pdf
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 5/28


The report goes on to question where she got enough of the anti-depressant to cause the
intoxication that contributed to her death, as well as suggesting that any drugs that were in
her system at her time of death were taken at A Better Tomorrow. The report also alleges
that McMinn was admitted against her will, even though in California, a person has to be
declared a danger to themselves or others to be committed to a facility without their
permission. Unlabeled medications were found in Ms. McMinn's bag after her death.


In the coroner's report, there was a reference to Ms. McMinn having seen the "facility's
psychiatrist", which would suggest that the facility was providing medical care, which is a
violation of state law.


The second death occurred when a patient dies on the same day he was admitted, after
suffering from a seizure. The report says that A Better Tomorrow never made any attempt
for the man to have a medical assessment before his death.


In the third death, the department accused A Better Tomorrow of mischaracterizing the
death in the state report. The report reads


The death report stated that the client had been weak but able to function on his own
when he arrived at the program, the state's accusation said. Yet, the program's own
records reflected that he was incontinent, jaundiced and very weak. Although he told
the program that he had suffered from liver disease, the staff did not do a medical
assessment, the state's investigation later found. (Pg. 17)


The fourth death occurred when Gary Benefeild flew from his home to A Better Tomorrow
center seeking treatment. The next day he was dead on his 53rd birthday. The report
found that:


He was coughing and wheezing when he arrived, according to the department's later
investigation, which also found the following: His oxygen tank had been emptied at
the airport because of flight regulations. Benefield suffered from chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, emphysema and had recently been hospitalized for pneumonia.
Despite all this, the program failed to get him an oxygen tank. It also gave him an
anti-depressant and an anti-anxiety drug without a prescription and before he had
seen Dr. Bumby, listed on the program's website as "an outside medical consultant."
It got the drugs from an "extra supply" it kept on hand. Staff members failed to check
on Benefield after 12:30 a.m., contrary to its own guidelines, because they were
asleep.(Pg. 18)
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 6/28


Finally, this was enough for the commission to suspend the license of the A Better
Tomorrow facility. As the report notes, this had no impact on A Better Tomorrow, because
the Irongate property had already been closed as the result of a foreclosure and clients
had been moved to other A Better Tomorrow facilities.


According to two former employees, the problems continued even after the sanctions. A
Better Tomorrow has called these employees disgruntled and pointed out that they were
involved in a class action lawsuit over back wages. (Pg. 20)


The issues highlighted in the California Senate Office of Oversight and Outcomes report
occurred from 2008 to 2010. Despite the issues, in July 2011, Forterus announced that
they were merging with Performance Revolution, LLC. Performance Revolution was
located in Brentwood, Tennessee and founded by Michael Cartwright, current AAC
Chairman, in 2009. From this merger between a single addiction center in Tennessee and
the troubled addiction centers in California, what is now AAC begins to emerge.


It is not totally clear how the company transformed from this small footprint to what it is
today, but acquisitions were involved. It's not the acquisitions that I find interesting, but
what potentially happened at the addiction centers that could be negative for AAC in the
future.


To be clear, AAC's numbers up until this point have been phenomenal. But why
have they been phenomenal? AAC might say that they have focused on branding or
marketing their centers, but plenty of other addiction centers do the same thing. With only
currently just eight addiction centers across the country, scale doesn't make much sense
as an argument. I believe that the majority of this growth has to do with excessive and/or
fraudulent drug testing.


Section III: Allegedly Fraudulent Drug Testing


In order to understand how fraudulent drug testing works, it is important to understand the
two fraudulent components. First, there is Point of Care Testing (POCT). This is the testing
provided in a clinician's office and is typically performed with an inexpensive (less than
$50) test. The fraud in POCT testing is simply the fact that clinicians a) test too often and
b) bill out this cheap testing to insurance companies at prices as high as $1,200. The
profitability on unnecessary testing is massive.


The second component to understand is the "confirmatory testing." In the event that a test
registers a negative result, clinicians can then send the test on to a central lab for a
"confirmatory test", which is then billed to the insurance company at a price of



http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/forterus-inc-to-merge-with-performance-revolution-llc-completes-series-c-conversion-125248559.html
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 7/28


$1,000-$2,000. The fraud here occurs when clinicians automatically send the tests in for
expensive confirmatory tests, even when it is not merited. In this way, the firm can bill as
much as $3,200 for a single urine test (combined POCT and confirmatory tests). In fact,
this business is so lucrative that AAC has now even opened its own lab in Tennessee, so
that it can capture all of the profits from unnecessary confirmatory tests.


AAC does not break out exactly how much revenue comes from drug testing, but they do
break down the percent of revenues that come from commercial payors. According to
AAC, in 2013, 90% of their revenues came from commercial payors with the balance
being paid out of pocket. So it's impossible to know exactly what percentage of revenue
comes from drug testing. We can see that 26% of commercial payor revenue comes from
POCT and Lab Services.


AAC is currently the subject of this exact type of fraud lawsuit. Horizon Blue Cross Blue
Shield of New Jersey vs. Avee Laboratories et al., alleges that the defendants submitted
unnecessary and fraudulent drug tests. One of AAC's subsidiaries, Leading Edge, was
named as a defendant. The case claims that the defendants began causing others to
submit "false and fraudulent claims for unnecessary and ineligible POCT and confirmatory
tests." Leading Edge was a relatively small addiction center in New Jersey, which was
opened by Treatment Solutions (more on that shortly).


According to the lawsuit, despite its tiny size, Leading Edge fraudulently billed Blue Cross
Blue Shield over $6 million in fraudulent claims for urine tests. The suit goes on, saying,



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId9.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 8/28


As a result of this scheme, healthcare providers, including Leading Edge Recovery
Center and Laurie Deerfield, rendered unnecessary [point-of-care tests]. Despite
repeated negative results and the absence of any clinical reason to believe that the
results were inaccurate, healthcare providers requested Avee to perform
unnecessary confirmatory tests on the same urine samples.


So we can see from the above that Leading Edge was engaged in both types of billing
fraud, excessive POCT testing as well as unnecessary confirmatory tests.


The Leading Edge facility became part of AAC on August 31, 2012, when AAC acquired
certain assets of AJG Solutions, Inc., which was also known as Treatment Solutions. The
company referred to this acquisition as the "TSN Acquisition." AAC closed the Leading
Edge Facility in June 2013. According to the S-1, this was because,


The amenities and the service offerings at the facility were inconsistent with the
Company's long-term strategy. (Pg. F-33, S-1).


Was shutting down the caught-in-the-act fraud a necessity before launching the
IPO?


The lawsuit claims:


To generate unnecessary POCT and confirmatory test, Defendant Avee Laboratories
(Avee) published false and deceptive marketing materials and offered unlawful
inducements that encouraged Healthcare Providers to perform medically
unnecessary POCT and to refer their patients to Avee for unnecessary confirmatory
testing. Among other things, Defendant Avee falsely advised Healthcare Providers
that they could generate supplemental income by rendering and submitting claims to
insurers like Horizon for performing POCT only when the provider also ordered
confirmatory testing of the POCT results from a clinical laboratory, like Avee.


As a result of this scheme, Healthcare Providers, including Leading Edge Recovery
Center and Laurie Deerfield rendered unnecessary POCT. Despite repeated
negative results and the absence of any clinical reason to believe that the negative
results were inaccurate, Healthcare Providers requested Avee to perform
unnecessary confirmatory tests on the same urine samples.


What's interesting is that this scheme of "unnecessary confirmatory testing" sounds a lot
like what AAC recently implemented in their own business model.
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 9/28


In the third quarter of 2013, AAC began operating a lab in Brentwood that did more
complex testing. Essentially AAC facilities test the urine samples at their facilities and then
send the samples to Brentwood for further and more complex testing. AAC mentions that
this is a very high margin business saying,


We tend to experience higher margins from our urinalysis testing services, which are
conducted both on-site at all of our treatment facilities and at our centralized
laboratory facility in Brentwood, Tennessee, than we do from other ancillary services.
(10-Q pg. 26)


Could it be that the purpose of the Brentwood facility is to facilitate the
unnecessary re-testing of urine samples like what was allegedly happening with
Leading Edge?


To determine whether or not AAC's drug testing was more frequent than the industry
norm, I called both AAC representatives as well as their competitors. What I found was
that AAC tests its patients far more frequently than the industry norm, indicating that
Leading Edge may not have been an isolated event. More importantly, the only other
addiction center that I found that tested as frequently as AAC was also founded by
Michael Cartwright.


Here are the results from channel checks with AAC's centers. The results were compiled
from phone calls with their main call center as well as various online chats using the chat
feature on their websites. The chats usually told me that their centers tested 1-2x per
week, while the phone operators told me that their facilities tested 2-3x per week.


Then I did the same thing with all of the competitors that AAC lists. What I found was
interesting: their competitors generally could not even give me a number. They didn't even
measure urine drug testing on a weekly basis. But what was clear was that, they do not



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1606180/000156459014005558/aac-10q_20140930.htm

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/2/6818211-14253580610375283-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 10/28


test at anywhere near the same rate as AAC facilities.


It's interesting to note that the only other addiction center that tests as frequently as AAC
centers is Foundations Recovery Network, which was also started by AAC CEO Michael
Cartwright. According to an article in Treatment Magazine, there are connections between
AAC CEO Michael Cartwright and Treatment Solutions.


Sources tell Treatment Magazine that Cartwright's relationship with Treatment
Solutions goes back many years to the era in which he was CEO and founder of
Foundations Recovery Network, FRN, and to the time seven or eight years ago,
when Cartwright sold FRN to Chicago area based private equity interests.


AAC's last disclosure on this Blue Cross lawsuit came in the 10-Q filed November 12,
2014:


The Company is vigorously defending these claims and believes them to be without
merit. The company cannot provide any assurance that it will prevail in this matter,
nor can it reasonably estimate its potential liability if there is an adverse outcome.
(Page 22)


Several analyst reports make it clear that AAC is the only publicly traded addiction center
company, and there are few publicly traded companies in this sector to get an idea of how
this business should work, what the margins look like, etc.



http://www.treatmentmagazine.com/newswires/442-addiction-treatment-urine-testing-fraud-jim-bevell-american-addiction-centers.html

http://www.treatmentmagazine.com/newswires/442-addiction-treatment-urine-testing-fraud-jim-bevell-american-addiction-centers.html

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId12.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 11/28


Forterus, however, did report a few quarters as a public company doing business as an
addiction center. The numbers below are from the two quarters Forterus reported as a
OTC stock.


That's not a very long time period but it does give us an idea, especially since the Forterus
centers are now part of AAC.


The margins at AAC are substantially higher than they were at Forterus. This could be due
to scale or better marketing, but certainly potentially fraudulent and/or excessive urine
drug testing has a massive impact. Forterus had 200 beds when they merged with
Performance Revolution and earlier in 2014 AAC had 467 beds, so the Forterus part of
the business was still fairly large. And AAC's revenues are approximately 100% higher
than they were at Forterus, so obviously something substantial has changed here.


In its 10-Q, AAC says:


We tend to experience higher margins from our urinalysis testing services, which are
conducted both on-site at all of our treatment facilities and at our centralized
laboratory facility in Brentwood, Tennessee, than we do from other ancillary services.
(10-Q pg. 26)



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId15.png

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId16.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 12/28


This suggests that the urine drug testing revenues that were present may have been the
cause of AAC's improved margins and performance.


Is AAC's model built on providing unnecessary services to make the business look
better?


Looking at some more details we see that this has occurred in other facets of the
business, where AAC or AAC leaders have done things to make themselves and the
business look better than it really is.


AAC was already forced to shut down its operations in New Jersey following the fraud
lawsuit by Blue Cross Blue Shield, for whatever reason. And now it looks like Florida could
be next. The crackdown in Florida will significantly impact AAC, as over 50% of their beds
are located in Florida. AAC has 487 beds across the country, with 247 of their 487 beds at
their Riverview, Singer Island, and The Academy facilities. AAC also has a large
concentration of revenue coming from Blue Cross Blue Shield affiliates. Through the first
nine months in 2014, Blue Cross Blue Shield affiliates accounted for 28.3% of revenue.


One more interesting thing that came out of the Blue Cross Blue Shield suit was what
happened with one husband and wife team. An article in Treatment Magazine highlighted
the following "personnel interconnections" between Avee/Alere, which was the urine
testing company in the lawsuit, and AAC.


The article says "Stephanie Bickley has worked as a senior sales and marketing executive
at Avee/Alere while her husband, Brendan Bickley, was for years a top Treatment
Solutions executive who later went on to work for AAC as the executive in charge of that
company's Florida operations."


Treatment Solutions was the company that AAC acquired that ran Leading Edge. It is
certainly odd that a husband and wife team were on both sides of the alleged fraud.


The lawsuit hit on August 23, 2013 and according to his LinkedIn Brendan Bickley left
AAC in September 2013. What is strange, however, is that Stephanie Bickely was hired by
AAC to VP of Sales at Addiction Labs of America, the name of the Brentwood lab. It
appears that Ms. Bickley has the relevant experience that they would want at their lab, but
unfortunately it is experience in allegedly fraudulent activity.


Section IV: Related Party Revenue Management



http://www.treatmentmagazine.com/newswires/442-addiction-treatment-urine-testing-fraud-jim-bevell-american-addiction-centers.html

https://www.linkedin.com/in/brendanbickley

https://www.linkedin.com/pub/stephnie-bickley/3b/394/931
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 13/28


In April 2014 AAC acquired Clinical Revenue Management Services, LLC "CRMS" as part
of its reorganization transactions. This was an interesting move and served to help inflate
AAC's revenue and earnings just ahead of the IPO.


Up until 2012 AAC had outsourced its medical billing and collection processes to third-
party providers. In 2012 AAC shifted to using CRMS for their revenue management
services. From the S-1:


"In 2012, the Company transitioned its outsourced medical billing and collection
process from third-party service providers to Clinical Revenue Management
Services, LLC ("CRMS"), an alternative service provider. The two owners and
officers of CRMS are the spouses of the CEO and President of the Company.
Pursuant to a written service agreement, CRMS is paid (NYSE:I) the greater of $0.1
million per month or 5.0% of the monthly collected revenues and (ii) 7.0% of the
Professional Groups collected revenues." (S-1, F-40)


So the company decides to start using a revenue management company that is owned by
the wives of the CEO and President of AAC. It's not hard to imagine how a conflict of
interests might arise there. But if they had been operating for a while and had built up a
business then one could understand AAC's move. Unfortunately that is not the case.


State of Tennessee records show that CRMS was incorporated in January 2012 and that
they have always used the same address. 115 East Park Drive, Suite 200 or Suite 125.
AAC is located at 115 East Park Drive on the second floor.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/I
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 14/28


So AAC used a brand new revenue management company that was based in their same
building and run by their wives to do revenue management. The companies were
obviously very close. In the S-1 they disclose that CRMS leased office space and furniture
from AAC in their building in 2013. According to the S-1 CRMS occupied the same office
space in 2012 but no rents were charged.


CRMS ran AAC's billing services as a separate company until it was acquired by AAC in
April 2014. AAC acquired CRMS for $500k and 149,144 AAC shares for the wives of the
AAC President and CEO.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId22.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 15/28


"In connection with the CRMS Acquisition, Holdings acquired 100% of the
outstanding membership interests in CRMS, 50% of which were held by Tina F.
Cartwright, the spouse of our CEO, and 50% of which were held by Victoria Menz,
the spouse of our President, for total consideration of $0.5 million and 149,144
shares of Holdings common stock. Ms. Cartwright received total consideration of
$1.3 million, consisting of $250,000 in cash and 74,572 shares of Holdings common
stock at a fair value of $13.41 per share. Ms. Menz received total consideration of
$1.3 million, consisting of $250,000 in cash and 74,572 shares of Holdings common
stock at a fair value of $13.41 per share." (S-1)


According to LinkedIn Tina Cartwright is still running CRMS.


Source: LinkedIn


Right after AAC purchased CRMS; they changed their allowance for doubtful accounts.
From the 10-Q:



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId23.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 16/28


"During the second quarter of 2014, management analyzed the past two years of
accounts receivable collection and write-off history and the current projected bad
debt write-offs for all client accounts covered by insurance. Based on the results of
this analysis, including improvements noted in the credit quality of receivables aged
120-180 days, management concluded that the current methodology for establishing
the allowance for doubtful accounts resulted in, and would continue to result in, an
overstatement of the reserve requirement. As a result, management revised the
estimates used to establish the provision for doubtful accounts, effective as of the
second quarter of 2014. This change in estimate reduced the reserve percentages
applied to various aging classes of accounts receivable aged less than 360 days to
more closely reflect actual collection and write-off history that we have experienced
and expect to experience in the future." (10-Q, pg. 25)


You can see how drastic this change was by looking at AAC's ratio of Allowance for
Doubtful Accounts to Revenue. It is not hard to see when it started falling, right after the
CRMS acquisition and when management changed the allowance for doubtful accounts
helping boost earnings before the IPO.


For the sake of comparison, one can view what AAC's net income would be if they had
kept the provision for doubtful accounts at 13.9%, which is what it was the quarter before
the CRMS acquisition.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId24.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 17/28


We can see that if AAC's provision for doubtful accounts were kept at the same rate
as it was before the CRMS acquisition then net income would turn negative in the
following two quarters before falling to $1.1 million vs. the $3.3 million the AAC
reported for Q4.


Even more interesting is that AAC's reported net income in Q4 2014 was taxed at a rate of
around 8%. Analysts seem to have modeled a 42% tax rate and AAC has said that they
expect their tax rate to increase to between 38%-40% going forward. If we applied the
42% tax rate to Q4 2014 that analysts are modeling then reported net income would fall to
$2.03 million. Subtracting the higher provision for doubtful accounts from tax adjusted net
income then we would get negative net income of -$0.137 million again.


Could the spouses of AAC CEO Jerrod Menz and AAC Chairman Michael Cartwright
really do such a tremendous job in the revenue management business (in which
neither of them has any experience in) that the provision for doubtful accounts
would fall so sharply?


Providing such a big boost to net income right before the company went public has surely
made AAC look more attractive to investors and allowed it to command a higher valuation.


These transactions are clearly deeply troubling. Why would AAC use a revenue
management company operated by their spouses and not an arms-length third party?
Why change your allowance for doubtful accounts immediately after acquiring CRMS.
How could CRMS be doing such a better job at revenue management that management
realized they were over-reserving for doubtful accounts? And then why would AAC
management turn around and say that their provision for doubtful accounts reflects a
"higher reserve percentage due to uncertainty of collecting these accounts?



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/6818211_14253577314451_rId25.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 18/28


"The increase of accounts receivable aged at over 120 days was driven by the
significant growth in revenues in 2013, which increased receivables as a whole
across all aging periods; transition issues encountered when our billing and
collection functions were combined from multiple providers to CRMS during 2013;
payment delays normally associated with the opening of new facilities, such as
Desert Hope in January 2013, due to being an out-of-network provider with a limited
operating history; and the increase of total revenues from California and Nevada
where two large commercial payors in these markets pay their portion directly to the
client instead of us, which requires greater collections efforts, extends payment
times and reduces recovery amounts. As a result of the foregoing factors, our
provision for doubtful accounts reflects a higher reserve percentage due to
uncertainty of collecting these accounts." (S-1, pg. 65)


In the same vein as AAC taking steps to make themselves look better than they are, there
appears to be evidence of the CEO of an AAC subsidiary changing where he got his PhD
from as well as involvement in a Utah MLM that came under fire from Forbes and other
media sources for being a pyramid scheme.


Dr. Ralph E. Carson is the CEO of AAC subsidiary FitRx in Nashville, Tennessee. Here is
Dr. Carson's biography from the FitRx website:



http://www.fitrxbrentwood.com/about-us/our-staff/
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 19/28


"Dr. Ralph E. Carson, RD, Ph.D. | Executive Director, FitRx"


"Dr. Carson has been involved in the clinical treatment of addictions and eating
disorders for over 35 years. His unique background in health science and
medicine (BS Duke University, BHS Duke University Medical School) coupled
with nutrition and exercise (BS Oakwood College, Ph.D. Auburn University)
has prepared him to integrate neuropsychobiological intervention and proven
psychotherapeutic treatment. Dr. Carson honed his skills in communication and
often-complicated science into enjoyable, practical and informative workshops. He
has consulted with numerous addiction and eating disorder treatment centers
throughout the country and is an in-demand speaker at conferences and workshops.
Dr. Carson has also developed several eating disorder programs and corporate
wellness programs. He is an active board member of the International Association of
Eating Disorder Professionals (IAEDP) and Binge Eating Disorder Association
(BEDA). Working with Academy Medical Systems, he developed workshops for
professional groups throughout the country on topics such as exercise therapy,
sports nutrition and eating disorders. He authored several popular book on nutrition,
lifestyle practices, good health and the brain: "Harnessing the Healing Power of
Fruits" and the recently published "The Brain Fix: What's the Matter with Your Gray
Matter?"


In that biography he claims a PhD in nutrition and exercise medicine from Auburn
University. In this screenshot from an old course catalog, however, he shows that he had a
PhD from Donsbach University.
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 20/28


Dr. Stephen Barrett has written an excellent overview of Donsbach University at
QuackWatch. I will not repeat the entire article here but what it essentially says is that
Donsbach University was a non-accredited college that operated through the mail that had
a cast of doctors that had run into legal issues on the board.


While not mentioned in his biography, Dr. Carson also with MonaVie, which was a Utah
multi-level-marketing scheme that manufactured and distributed fruit based products. You
can see Dr. Carson speaking at a MonaVie event here. In fact Dr. Carson co-founded
MonaVie and developed its main products, a series of juices that were based on the Acai
berry. These juices cost around $120 for four 25 fluid ounce bottles that come in wine-like
bottle. According to an article in the Salt Lake Tribune the company made claims that the
juice could cure various diseases including cancer, arthritis, and high blood pressure,
among other things. The article mentions the court transcripts from a lawsuit brought by
Amway against MonaVie:


"The suit also uncovered an internal MonaVie memo by Ralph Carson, the
company's chief science officer, who created the original juice. The memo was in
response to raised eyebrows about claims being made about the juice. Carson
cautioned that the drink was "expensive flavored water. Any claims made are purely
hypothetical, unsubstantiated and, quite frankly, bogus," according to a court
transcript that quoted an Amway attorney."



http://www.quackwatch.org/01QuackeryRelatedTopics/donsbachuniv.html

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6sDkvo3fAZk

http://www.pilatesacademy.com.au/Dr.%20Ralph%20Carson%20interview%20on%20CBS%20radio%20on%20MonaVie.pdf

http://www.amazon.com/Monavie-Pulse-pucamonavie-4-Bottles/dp/B001I8Q9J4

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/3/6818211-14253589180570288-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 21/28


Section V: Impending Share Lockup


Like with all recent IPOs there was a 180-day lockup on shares held by AAC insiders from
the date of the IPO that prevents management from selling their shares until the lockup is
over. Especially in cases when the amount of shares offered in the IPO is low, and the
shares becoming free after the IPO is larger, the stock tends to fall as the market is
absorbing additional shares. This is exactly the case with AAC.


AAC offered 5 million shares in their IPO on October 1st and the company has 20,673,334
million shares outstanding. The lockup ends 180 days after the final S-1 was filed. "The
lock-up agreements between the underwriters and our directors, executive officers and
those stockholders participating in the Private Share Exchange and directed share
program will expire 180 days after the date of this prospectus." (Pg. 32 S-1)


The IPO was on October 1, 2014 meaning that the lockup ends in four weeks on March
30, 2015. It's not just the lockup ending, but the size of the lockup that will weigh on the
shares. Approximately 15 million shares will no longer be under the lock-up, quadrupling
the float in AAC. This will almost surely weigh on the stock as the market absorbs the
excess supply of AAC shares.


Section VI: Summary and Conclusion


AAC has a checkered past. From its stint on the Pink Sheets, the patient deaths at
Forterus, alleged insurance fraud at Leading Edge, related party revenue management, to
the lowering of the provision for doubtful accounts to make earnings look better before the
IPO, there seems to be much wrong here. AAC's net income gains have been juiced by
the lowering of provision for doubtful accounts and excessive and unnecessary POCT and
confirmatory drug testing have likely aided AAC's margins. The lockup coming at the end
of March will weigh heavily on the shares, as the free float will quadruple.


Notes/Disclosure:


I spoke with Investor Relations about the drug testing. I asked about margins on the drug
testing and other questions about the lab. I was told that if I just had questions about the
lab and testing side of the business, it was going to be a short conversation. I was also
told that AAC provides all the metrics that analysts are asking questions about. (The same
analysts that took AAC public.) I am short shares of AAC.


Disclosure: The author is short AAC.



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1606180/000119312514347607/d679815ds1a.htm
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Addicted To Fraudulent Drug Testing? - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2967976-american-addiction-centers-addicted-to-fraudulent-drug-testing 22/28


