5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 1/18


American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The
Start Of Real Problems
Aug. 4, 2015 9:40 AM ET26 comments
by: Bleecker Street Research


Summary


AAC continues to deceive patients, investors and analysts about the extent of and
details of patient deaths.


At least 8 undisclosed patient deaths in California and Florida, as recent as 2014.


Details on more deaths, almost all from prescription drugs dispensed by AAC.


Dispensing of controlled medications by low-wage, unlicensed employees from
“house supply” of drugs without prescriptions.


Ongoing pattern of illegal behavior led to patient deaths, and continues now despite
patient deaths.


Author's note on additional undisclosed patient deaths:


Prior to March of 2015, there were no references to patient deaths at AAC facilities which
could be found in the mainstream media. A Google search would turn up nothing. In
March, Bleecker Street Research published a report which highlighted four (4) deaths
which occurred in California, as disclosed in a report from the California State Senate.
Last week, an article in Forbes highlighted an additional two deaths, bringing the number
of known deaths to six (6). In this article, we have uncovered an additional two (2) patients
declared dead in 2014 in Florida and California. This brings the total number of
undisclosed deaths at AAC facilities to eight (8). This is what has been uncovered so far.
However, finding this information has been very difficult and much of it remains hidden by
AAC. As a result, we believe that there may be additional undisclosed patient deaths
which are being hidden by AAC.


Following my first article on AAC in March, I ended up having direct contact from a
number of former patients and employees of AAC. These parties have described in detail
the illegal activities at AAC which resulted in multiple patient deaths. Unsealed court
documents are provided below. I strongly encourage any other current or former patients
or employees to contact me via SeekingAlpha or at BleeckerResearch@gmail.com with
any additional information.
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 2/18


This article will focus on the more recent undisclosed deaths, for an in-depth examination
into what happened with the death of Gary Benefield, and the testimony from the civil case
visit BleeckerStreetResearch.com


Background


AAC Holdings, also known as American Addiction Centers (NASDAQ:AAC) continues to
deceive patients, investors and analysts about the extent of and the details of multiple
patient deaths that have been occurring in its facilities as recently as 2014. First, AAC
goes to great lengths to cover up the deaths. In most cases, no one knows that they have
even happened. When found out, AAC then tries to make the deaths appear as if they
were from natural causes in an attempt to avoid liability for negligence.


Last week, there was a public criminal indictment of AAC's president, Jerrod Menz, in the
death of Gary Benefield, who will be referred to as Patient #1 in the rest of this article. As
a result, AAC was forced to disclose some details in this one death. However, AAC now
insists that the death was due to natural causes. We will see below that this is
demonstrably not the case and that this will be easily proven in a court of law. Beyond this,
AAC continues to fail to disclose any details in seven (7) additional deaths which have
occurred as recently as 2014.


AAC only made this disclosure on its quarterly earnings call. AAC's quarterly results were
incredibly strong, but the stock has already begun to sell off based on this news. But in
reality, it now looks as if things may actually be far worse than they already appear.


There was some very relevant information which was left out by AAC management.


First, the specific charge leveled was "murder," the most serious charge that could have
come up. That news was only revealed by the press one day later, and not by AAC.


Second, not only was president Jerrod Menz (who has since resigned, but is still working
with the company) indicted, but also the company's Forterus unit was indicted as an
organization. Clearly you can't put the company in jail, but you can put it out of business.
Forterus is the largest AAC division and is responsible for nearly 20% of AAC's revenues.


Third, three independent medical doctors cited the actions of Forterus staff as having
directly caused the death of the patient - it was not natural causes.


AAC has stated that the patient died of "natural causes." This is clearly not the case.
Based on the facts below, Forterus and Mr. Menz ran an organization which repeatedly
and consistently had low wage unlicensed employees (former addicts hired by Forterus)



http://bleeckerstreetresearch.com/

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/AAC
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 3/18


dispense controlled medications to patients without prescriptions. Medications were taken
from a "house supply" of drugs. According to the independent medical examiner, this
practice directly resulted in the death of Mr. Benefield (and others). Forterus also made it a
practice to aggressively recruit unsuitable patients who had acute medical needs which
could not be met by the company. This also directly resulted in multiple patient deaths.
Together, it is these practices which are the basis of the "murder" charge against AAC's
president, Jerrod Menz, and its director of operations, Meg Dean.


So far, there have been at least seven (7) additional undisclosed deaths of patients at
AAC facilities in California and Florida. Some of these have occurred as recently as 2014.
None of these has been disclosed by AAC to investors, to prospective patients or to
analysts.


Conversations with former employees reveal that the pattern of negligence and abuse
(including with unlicensed dispensing of controlled medications) has continued at AAC
facilities even after the deaths of multiple patients. According to employees, such
practices are still ongoing today.


The impact on AAC is likely to be massive.


First, it is a PR nightmare. Patients who research any of the AAC facilities will now
immediately find that the president of the company was forced to resign after being
indicted for the "murder" of a patient. They will also quickly learn about the dispensing of
medications by low wage, unlicensed former addicts, without any prescriptions. They will
also learn of the substandard care and aggressive marketing practices.


Second, there is a high likelihood that Forterus will simply be shut down in California. This
is especially likely given the dangerous policies and procedures which resulted in deaths
appear to still be in place. Forterus accounts for nearly 20% of AAC's beds.


Third, AAC may now be less able to conduct the acquisitions which it needs in order to
grow. These charges put AAC in violation of their credit facility, which has been
instrumental in allowing AAC to pursue its roll-up strategy.


What is the pattern of deaths at these facilities and what does it mean for AAC
today?


Forterus is ground zero for AAC. It is their first facility and was co-founded by Jerrod
Menz. While analysts and the company would like you to believe that this is some rogue
facility. In reality it is not, it is the first facility that AAC had, and is a key part of their
operation.
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 4/18


There is a clear ongoing pattern of AAC-admitted patients who are blatantly unsuitable for
treatment at their facilities either due to medical or psychiatric reasons. AAC has made it a
practice to aggressively recruit unsuitable patients even when it creates a grave risk to
their safety. This has also contributed to multiple patient deaths.


The details of these deaths come from the declarations of three different medical experts.
The main and most detailed one came from Dr. Frank Sheridan, you can view the entire
declaration here. The most important information comes on pages 4-14. Note: I have used
patient #1, 2, 3, etc. You can view the names in the court documents if you wish.


Death of Patient #2


Patient #2 had a history of diabetes, weighed 300 lbs., had high blood pressure and used
a CPAP machine. Patient #2 died within hours of his admission after he was dispensed
Ativan without a prescription. Ativan (also known as Lorazepam) is a benzodiazepine and
a CNS depressant.


Death of Patient #3


According to the court depositions, Patient #3 was another medically fragile patient who
was admitted to Forterus while taking the prescription drug Amitriptyline for a heart
condition. It was the house policy to take away the patient's prescription drugs from them,
to be administered by house faculty of hired recovering addicts. According to her autopsy,
Patient #3 died of an Amitriptyline overdose.


Death of Patient #4


Patient #4 was deemed a severe suicide risk who was "severely intoxicated" on "bath
salts" (a designer drug) when he was admitted to the program and picked up by a driver.
Per the facility's own policies, Patient #4 was not an appropriate candidate for the
program.


According to the deposition:


[Patient #4] met with a counselor at the ABT facility and then left on foot. He was not
followed or looked for by ABT, despite having been told by their own employee,
Justin Craig, that he was suicidal and being urged to go after him. Patient #4 was
found deceased by police, after hanging himself from a bridge approximately 400
yards from the ABT facility."


Death of Patient #5



https://www.scribd.com/doc/272074899/AAC-Benefield-Declaration-of-Dr-Frank-Sheridan-3-19-14?secret_password=llXtOkuVmDm4WofwEBDy
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 5/18


Patient #5 is another example of a patient who was admitted to the program despite being
an inappropriate candidate due to severe health and suicide risks. After being admitted,
Patient #5 displayed severe withdrawal symptoms, including delirium tremens, paranoia
and hallucinations. Staff raised concerns and thought that Patient #5 needed immediate
psychiatric evaluation. This never happened, and Patient #5 was found dead in his room
after slitting his own wrist and throat with a razor. Patient #5 should have never been
admitted to the program. Second, upon recognition of this, he should have been sent for
immediate psychiatric care.


Death of Patient #6


Patient #6 also died while under care from AAC's facility. He was severely ill with end
stage liver disease and severe jaundice. According to the deposition,


[Patient #6] was clearly in need of acute medical care and by ABT's own licensing
standards not appropriate for admission to ABT's non-medical residential detox."


Criminal Recruiting Practices


The point is that AAC has made it a practice to deliberately and aggressively recruit new
patients at all costs, even when it means jeopardizing lives of at-risk patients. The facility
purported to provide drug/alcohol detox; however, the company is in no way staffed or
equipped to handle such medically-fragile patients.


Thalia Kirchwehm was a former intake specialist at the AAC unit. She quit over frustration
with the recruiting tactics required by CEO Jerrod Menz.


According to Ms. Kirchwehm's deposition.


Intake work was a high pressure environment, with a "boiler room" atmosphere
I was expressly instructed by Mr. Menz [the current CEO] and Ms. Scarella to offer
potential clients anything they asked for - homeopathic treatment, gym, spa, pool,
beach, 24-hour medical care, doctors or psychiatrists on staff, medications - anything
the client wanted in terms of rehab services
Mr. Menz took me to some of the different residential facilities while he was explaining
the goals of the intake department. I learned that the house managers were handling
the detox program, and that most house managers were former addicts, many of
whom were only 6 months sober.
Mr. Menz stated to me that he hires people cheap, who have little sober time, in
exchange for rent, and that is how he makes all his money.



https://www.scribd.com/doc/271991672/AAC-Benefield-Thalia-Kirchwehm-Affidavit-3-19-14?secret_password=62E4o4yNkK7h7hMhbJ7y
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 6/18


I started getting uncomfortable because I had become aware that many of the services
and amenities I was instructed to offer were not actually available, and the intake staff
was expected to lie to people who called to inquire about the services offered.


Again, keep in mind that these are her official statements from her court deposition under
penalty of perjury.


From the court documents and Ms. Kirchwehm's declaration, it should be clear that AAC
was telling patients that it could provide a level of medical-care that it's not equipped to
handle, a practice which continues today.


To see if AAC's marketing practices had changed at all, I used the chat feature on their
website, posing as someone addicted to Xanax consuming 14mg of it per day with a
history of seizures. Xanax is one of the hardest drugs to withdraw from, and someone
taking that high of a dosage with a history of seizures would need a closely monitored
medical detox.


The AAC representative was quick to recommend inpatient treatment and was just as
quick to ask the "Are you insured?" question. I have spoken with several addiction center
operators who have all stated that someone with a history of seizures and taking 14mg of
Xanax per day (again, an enormous dose) would need a medical detox. The problem is
that Forterus is not licensed for a medical detox, and is instead licensed for "Residential-
Detox."



http://mentalhealthdaily.com/2014/04/17/xanax-alprazolam-withdrawal-symptoms-timeline/

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/8/3/6818211-1438608170507015-Bleecker-Street-Research_origin.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 7/18


You can view a list of all the "non-medical alcoholism and drug abuse treatment facilities
licensed and/or certified by the Department of Health Care Services" here.


As you can see, Forterus is licensed for "Res-Detox" which is not the same as a medical
detox.


This information comes from the California Department of Health Care Services Licensing
and Certification Section Status report, which can be found here. At the top of that
document, it says that "This is an alphabetical list by county of all non-medical alcoholism
and drug abuse recovery or treatment facilities licensed and/or certified by the Department
of Health Care Services."


The point is that Forterus is clearly not a medical detox, but even to this day is still willing
to accept patients who are medically in need of a detox in a medical environment.


More deaths in 2014 which have been quietly covered up


At the Forterus unit, Jerrod Menz was not the individual who handed Gary Benefield the
pills that killed him. Instead, he has been indicted for murder because he was the
individual who set up the incredibly dangerous policies and procedures that killed
Benefield. Likewise, Michael Cartwright may now be on the hook due to the more recent
deaths that have occurred in California and Florida.


Very little is known about these most recent two deaths because they have not yet found
their way into any public court filings. AAC is certainly not sharing any of the details with
anyone.



http://www.dhcs.ca.gov/provgovpart/Documents/Status_Report_July_2015.pdf

http://www.dhcs.ca.gov/provgovpart/Documents/Status_Report_July_2015.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/8/2/saupload_kxMljm2twQw6E74zhtYHrKbRwre3tRY-H5FAMpj6DFZxvUIXLl9BBuI75LxHXjOSeeNr0mqrILX7OMWAqcYr4MoUBd-Ry3QgMc6RvIoxYyy1CGzqRpKjYzs8UmQ8tY0EjbAJ8bI.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 8/18


What we do know is that 16-year old Billy Patient went missing from AAC's Singer Island
facility while out on a day trip to the beach. He was declared dead on March 4, 2014.


(click to enlarge)


My conversations with multiple employees also reveal that another patient died in
California.


According to two former employees, there was another death at Forterus in July 2014.
Below is a copy of the email that was sent out by Forterus after Mr. Caetano's death.


This particular death occurred at the Symeron House, one of the Forterus houses. I have
spoken with two former employees who worked there at the time of the death, and both
told the same story. The story coming from both of these employees is notably different



http://www.treatmentmagazine.com/newswires/373-adolescent-disappearance-threatens-cartwrights-aac-branding.html

http://www.carf.org/providerProfile.aspx?cid=209773

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/8/2/saupload_8HSL_jDID-6cIZVH5GBrCUQh0yZBbWyTQseoHQgqXNjBgM1ekeDrAPqKfvQPI9jn9XrI9zQdGdl0iQCIArNPeg9Fm2M9ZDSFYNXFVqYKGi_vh43Pt42_EG84lLd211hq7nngir0.png
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 9/18


than the details contained in the email.


When Mr. Caetano was found struggling, the house manager (who still works at Forterus)
fainted. It was the patients who called 911 and performed CPR on Mr. Caetano until the
paramedics arrived. It is unclear at the moment exactly what lead to Mr. Caetano's death,
but according to both employees, there was an empty pill bottle found under his bed.


Again, both of these deaths occurred in 2014 and (as with the previous deaths) neither
has been disclosed to the public, to investors or to analysts.


This opens up AAC to a host of new problems. The more I dig, the more deaths I find.
AAC has done an excellent job of keeping these deaths quiet, but eventually it will catch
up to them.


The impact on AAC going forward of these deaths and criminal charges


As a roll-up story, AAC is reliant on its access to capital to acquire other addiction facilities.
AAC has known about the potential for a criminal charge in the Benefield case since at
least August 2013 when Hardy Gold stated, "I anticipate criminal charges will be filed
shortly." This was more than a year before AAC went public. Yet AAC has raised $200
million ($75 million in the IPO, and $125 million in the debt offering) from investors without
ever disclosing the pending criminal investigation.


In AAC's Credit Agreement on page 59, the credit agreement states:



http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1606180/000156459015001496/aac-ex1027_20141231460.htm
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 10/18


6.03 Notices.


Promptly and in any event within five (5) Business Days notify the Administrative
Agent and each Lender of:


of the occurrence of any Default;


of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a
Material Adverse Effect;


of the occurrence of any ERISA Event;


((d)) of any material change in accounting policies or financial reporting practices by
any Loan Party or any Subsidiary thereof;


((e)) after receipt of written notice of ((i)) the institution of any investigation, review or
proceeding against the Borrower or any Subsidiary to suspend, revoke or terminate
any agreement of participation with a Payor, (ii) the institution by any Payor or
Governmental Authority of any investigation, review or proceeding against the
Borrower or any Subsidiary that could reasonably be expected to result in the
Borrower's or such Subsidiary's right to participate with or receive payment from any
Payor or ((iii)) any loss accreditation, participation under any Payor or Medical
Reimbursement Program, or any license if such loss could reasonably expected to
result in a Material Adverse Effect


AAC's president Jerrod Menz and Forterus itself being charged for murder is certainly a
"material adverse effect" and I believe this puts AAC in violation of its credit agreement.


More importantly, this harms AAC's ability to raise money in the future. While Jerrod Menz
has stepped down, Forterus was also charged with murder and that is a key part of AAC.
While analysts have defended the stock after the initial news, will they continue to defend
it in the face of murder charges against Jerrod Menz and the company itself?


AAC has done a remarkable job of covering up the fact that the charges were murder. But
the news is slowly trickling out. Once this news become more widely public, it will become
a public relations nightmare for AAC and it will be much more difficult for AAC to fill their
beds. If you are looking to put a family member in an addiction center, and you Google
that addiction center, news that the facility that you are looking at is being charged with
murder will likely lead you to chose another facility for you or your loved ones.
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 11/18


This could potentially lead to a "death spiral." AAC has used a tremendous amount of
capital to acquire these facilities, and just as they are beginning to come online, a major
press nightmare will make the beds they have acquired much harder to fill.


Conclusion


Even when AAC is attempting to tell the truth, they just cannot seem to come clean.


AAC has known that criminal charges were pending against the company since 2013. In
August 2013, Hardy R. Gold was the Deputy Attorney General BMFEA in the California
Attorney General's division when he provided a signed and publicly available affidavit in a
civil complaint filed by AAC itself which nearly promised criminal charges against AAC.
Speaking of the June 2010 death of Gary Benefield at one of the Forterus group homes,
Gold said, "I anticipate criminal charges will be filed." You can view Mr. Gold's statement
here on page 3 of the document.


AAC claims in the July 29th press release that "The Company is not currently aware of
any evidence that the Company or any of the individuals charged were responsible for the
resident's death." The civil lawsuit filed by Gary's widow Kelly Benefield includes
thousands of pages of signed declarations and depositions from numerous Forterus
employees with firsthand knowledge of what happened to Mr. Benefield while in the care
of AAC as well as affidavits from three different medical examiners who blamed AAC for
Benefield's death.


Many of these declarations can be found on BleeckerStreetResearch.com, where many of
the key documents can be found.


Perhaps most importantly, the July 29th press release says "we are just now having the
opportunity to review this indictment." But in fact, the indictment was issued Tuesday July
21st and Menz's arraignment happened first thing Thursday morning California time.


Case Number Name Filing Date Charges Next Hearing Jurisdiction


SWF1501351 MENZ, JERROD


NATHAN


07/21/2015 PC


368(1)


PC 187


Arraignment


07/29/2015 AT


8:30 AM DEPT.


S204



https://www.scribd.com/doc/271990576/AAC-Hardy-Gold-Declaration-8-30-13?secret_password=a70iGZf7phRAdWll7Ahz
5/18/2018 American Addiction Centers: Even More Undisclosed Deaths And The Start Of Real Problems - AAC Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAC) | Se…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3393735-american-addiction-centers-even-more-undisclosed-deaths-and-the-start-of-real-problems 12/18


