5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In
HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia
Mar. 9, 2015 3:50 PM ET31 comments
by: Alpha Exposure


Summary


Sangamo has a 20-year track record of drug development failure.


Sangamo’s market capitalization of $1.2 billion grossly overestimates the likelihood
of success of the HIV and thalassemia pre-clinical programs.


Sangamo’s purportedly ground-breaking results in HIV with SB-728 do not stand up
under close examination.


Sangamo’s approach to B-thalassemia is flawed.


Sangamo BioSciences (NASDAQ:SGMO) was founded in 1995 ostensibly to
commercialize zinc finger nuclease technology. Twenty years have passed since its
founding and there hasn't been a single drug approval nor is one imminent. In twenty
years, Sangamo hasn't even advanced a drug past phase 2. What it has done is treat its
investors to a steady diet of insider sales, misleading press releases, and dilution.


To find evidence of a Sangamo executive stock purchase you have to go back to August
2010, when CEO Edward Lanphier and CFO Ward Wolfe dug deep to purchase 10,000
and 9,000 shares at $3.00. That pales in comparison to $20.5 million in stock sales from
the pair ($17 million for Lanphier and $3.5 million for Wolfe). Sangamo executives have
excelled at selling company stock as well with 6 secondary offerings since it became a
public company.


Throw in 19 consecutive years of losses since inception and one would think this would be
enough to send investors running to the hills. Instead, Sangamo proves P.T. Barnum
correct with a market capitalization of over $1.2 billion. Let's explore why Sangamo's
approach to genetic therapy is fundamentally flawed. First we will examine its efforts in B-
thalassemia. Then we will deconstruct Sangamo's purportedly successful results in HIV
with its SB-728 therapy.


Zinc Finger Nuclease in hemoglobinopathies



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SGMO
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Sangamo and partner Biogen are developing a zinc finger nuclease (ZFN) based
approach to the treatment of sickle cell disease and B-thalassemia. These programs have
not yet entered the clinic. Both diseases result from mutations in the proteins that form
hemoglobin - the oxygen carrying component of red blood cells. To understand the folly of
Sangamo's approach we'll need a brief review of hemoglobin synthesis.


Hemoglobin is a tetramer that typically contains two alpha chains and two beta chains.
Each individual has two copies of each gene; one from each parent. A mutation that
renders one of these proteins defective is generally asymptomatic. This is the so-called
heterozygous or carrier state. A mutation in both copies of either gene leads to disease.


Fetuses use a slightly different form of hemoglobin which consists of two gamma chains
and 2 alpha chains. Fetal hemoglobin has a higher affinity for oxygen and facilitates the
transfer of oxygen from the mother's blood to the fetus. Fetal hemoglobin is generally
present at <1% in adults unless they have a hemoglobinopathy such as sickle cell disease
or thalassemia in which case it may be present at greater concentrations. Higher
concentrations of fetal hemoglobin may ameliorate some of the symptoms of thalassemia
because fetal hemoglobin is not mutated in these patients and it is capable of carrying
oxygen. We say "may" because even though some patients with hemoglobinopathies
have higher levels of fetal hemoglobin, there has never been a trial to demonstrate this.
This is simply an observed correlation.


The fatal flaw:


Assuming that one could introduce DNA into a cell, the most obvious approach to treating
thalassemia is to introduce a normal (wild type) copy of the defective gene. This is exactly
the approach being taken by Bluebird bio (NASDAQ:BLUE). While there is no guarantee
that this approach will work, it is direct and Bluebird is conducting proper studies to test it.


To call Sangamo's approach to the treatment of thalassemia indirect is an understatement.
Sangamo has decided rather than attempting to fix the underlying problem - namely, a
mutation in the beta globin gene - it will attempt to ameliorate the symptoms it causes by
increasing the amount of fetal hemoglobin produced. Since fetal hemoglobin is normally
repressed in adults, Sangamo's strategy involves "de-repressing" fetal hemoglobin by
inactivating its repressor protein BCL11a.


Sangamo has engineered a zinc finger nuclease that can be introduced into red cell
precursors. This ZFN is designed to cleave and inactivate the BCL11a gene. Of course,
inactivation of one copy of BCL11a is not enough. Instead, both copies of the gene must



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/BLUE
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


be inactivated for this to have any chance of working. After confirming that BCL11a has
been inactivated, SGMO will re-introduce the modified cells back into the patient.


The barrier to gene therapy is not selecting the right construct. The scientific community
understands what gene is mutated and knows how to create a wild type copy for
introduction into the cell. The barrier to gene therapy has long been successfully
introducing the expression construct into the cells and effecting persistent gene
expression. If one solves the problem of introducing DNA into cells, then what possible
reason could there be for introducing anything more than a good copy of the mutated
gene? Sangamo's persistence with the zinc finger approach suggests a slavish desire use
the technology on which they became a public company 15 years ago in spite of the fact
that more direct approaches exist. When it comes to altering someone's genome, less is
more.


Does this sound familiar?


In 2009, Sangamo tried a similar approach to treat peripheral neuropathy. The company
hypothesized that Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor also known as VEGF was deficient
in patients with diabetic peripheral neuropathy. Rather than injecting the VEGF protein or
a gene therapy cassette that caused cells to express VEGF, Sangamo introduced a
plasmid (SB-509) that would hopefully express a zinc finger protein that they thought
would direct the cell to synthesize VEGF. On October 3, 2011, Sangamo announced that
the phase 2 study of SB-509 failed. The parallels between this failed approach and the
current approach to treating hemoglobinopathies are striking. In both cases, a more direct
approach is available. In both cases, we believe Sangamo uses an indirect route simply to
make use of the zinc finger technology.


What could go wrong?


The gene Sangamo plans to inactivate BCL11a, was initially discovered in aggressive B-
cell leukemias and is commonly overexpressed in Hodgkin's disease. In fact, the name
BCL comes from B-Cell Lymphoma. Perhaps more troubling is the observation from
murine studies that cells lacking BCL11a can induce lymphomas in recipient mice. Will the
same be observed in humans? We won't know until Sangamo exposes enough patients.
You have to ask yourself why on Earth someone would knowingly delete a gene that is
known to have tumor suppressing activity in mice.


Assuming Sangamo can achieve BCL11a deletions in red blood cell precursors and that
these cells when re-introduced into the patient don't cause cancer, they might be able to
increase the levels of fetal hemoglobin and potentially reduce the symptoms of



http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12774073
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


thalassemia. Did we mention that this approach requires that the ZFN modified cells be re-
introduced in the context of bone marrow transplant conditioning? Bone marrow
transplants are potentially curative for thalassemia and sickle cell disease provided one
can find a matched donor so the Sangamo approach, should it meet all of the
aforementioned hurdles, does eliminate the need to find a matched donor.


The real question to ask is why anyone would bother with such an indirect approach that
at best might reduce symptoms when the gene therapy approach offered by Bluebird
promises to effect a cure?


SB-728 in HIV: No evidence of success


We believe Sangamo is making the same mistakes with HIV. Like with B-thalassemia,
Sangamo is taking an indirect and circuitous route in its HIV treatment, one that we don't
believe makes scientific sense. Instead of going after the HIV virus directly, Sangamo's
SB-728 works by manipulating the T-cells of HIV patients. The HIV virus works by
attaching to receptors on healthy T-cells (a type of white blood cell), entering the cell, and
eventually killing the T-cell and impacting the patient's ability to fight infections. There are
several co-receptors on the T-cell; CD4, CCR5, and CXCR4 are three well-known and
established ones. Sangamo's SB-728 supposedly works by causing a mutation in the
CCR5 receptor, thus making the cell immune to HIV. It does not target the HIV virus
directly. It simply tries to boost a patient's immunity to HIV.


So far, the results from several phase 1/2 trials for SB-728 have been disappointing, but
one wouldn't be able to tell from Sangamo's enthusiasm. We believe that Sangamo has
cherry-picked and highlighted a handful of patients in every press release and has not
mentioned the many patients who have failed therapy. A closer examination shows there
is nothing to be excited about. Sangamo likes to point out that 6 patients across their
phase 1 and 2 trials have been on extended Treatment Interruption (TI) and remain off
highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART). However, that's 6 patients across a total of 40
patients treated, which is only 15%. Why should anyone be excited about a 15% response



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/959452_14257655998950_rId7.png
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


rate in a treatment? If Sangamo bothered to include a control arm, one might be able to
objectively assess if SB-728 is doing anything but the last time Sangamo included a
control arm was in the phase 2 trial of SB-509 and we know how that worked out
(Sangamo BioSciences Announces Phase 2b Trial of SB-509 in Diabetic Neuropathy Did
Not Meet Key Study Endpoints). The only thing Sangamo appears more adamant about
than using their zinc finger technology is omitting a control arm.


Furthermore, no single patient has been "functionally cured," a phrase that Sangamo uses
liberally in every press release in describing SB-728. The patients that are on extended TI
do not have "undetectable viral loads." Instead, they have demonstrated "continuing
control of circulating viral load at low levels." In fact, each of the 3 subjects that Sangamo
has touted as having reached "undetectable viral loads" only reached undetectable viral
loads for a transitory period of time. All 3 later saw an increase in HIV viral load to
detectable levels. SB-728 did not provide a "cure," as Sangamo likes to say. We'll highlight
one of the subjects from the SB-728-209 Cohort 5 phase 2 trial to make Sangamo's
sleight of hand clearer.



http://investor.sangamo.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=610157
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


It's clear that this patient regressed and viral loads (VL) began to rise significantly before
31 weeks. No updates on the patient have been provided since May of 2014.


The goal of HIV therapy is not to be off drugs and have low levels of disease. The goal of
HIV therapy is to have an undetectable HIV viral load and remain so. This has not
happened in any of Sangamo's 40 SB-728 patients. That is a 0% success rate. The
patients that remain on treatment interruption have detectable HIV viral loads and are at
significant risk of an increase in viral loads. This shows that Sangamo's SB-728 is quite far
from becoming a "functional cure" and may never be one.


Sangamo is now downplaying SB-728 efficacy


As we have seen SB-728's trial results deteriorate, Sangamo has changed its language
around SB-728, downplaying its potential. In earlier press releases, Sangamo described
SB-728 as a potential "functional cure."


In later press releases, Sangamo started describing SB-728 more as a treatment that
allows "functional control" of HIV and not a "functional cure."


Finally, at the Sixth International Workshop on HIV Persistence during Therapy in 2013,
Sangamo stated that SB-728 is no longer being developed as a "functional cure" for HIV,
which is what the market is so enthusiastic about.
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


Existing HAART therapy provides undetectable viral loads


It is clear from Sangamo's own words that Sangamo realizes SB-728 is not a potential
"cure" for HIV and now must be positioned as a potential treatment for functional control of
HIV. However, there already exists a treatment today that allows for incredible control
rates for HIV. In order for SB-728 to achieve any sort of success for the treatment of HIV, it
must perform better than today's standard of care (SOC), which is HAART. Studies of
patients on HAART have shown significantly higher rates of response and undetectable
viral loads. Well-established drugs like Stribild have shown 94% and 93% of patients
reached undetectable rates of viral load . These types of response and success rates are
common with HAART.


In fact, HAART works so well that in SGMO's phase 1 study, Sangamo had to abandon
the portion of the study that targeted HIV patients who had failed HAART because they
couldn't find enough patients. That's how successful HAART is!


It's also important to note that the patients who reached undetectable viral loads after
receiving SB-728 were all CCR5-Δ32 heterozygous patients, which means they were
naturally more resistant to HIV therapy. About 10% of the population is heterozygous,
though closer to 20% in people of European ancestry. In Sangamo's phase 2 portion of
the SB-728-902 trial (Cohort 5), Sangamo purposefully chose only CCR5-Δ32


2



http://www.gilead.com/~/media/Files/pdfs/medicines/hiv/stribild/stribild_pi.pdf

http://www.cell.com/cell/abstract/S0092-8674%2800%2980110-5?_returnURL=http%3A%2F%2Flinkinghub.elsevier.com%2Fretrieve%2Fpii%2FS0092867400801105%3Fshowall%3Dtrue
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


heterozygous patients. Of the 10 patients treated, only 2 ever reached undetectable viral
load levels at any point in time, and only 1 remained on TI longer than protocol. Given this
population was hand-picked to show the most success, we're surprised no one achieved
successful long-term undetectable viral loads. This is further indication that SB-728 does
not work.


Sangamo has been unable to find a partner for SB-728


Lastly, Sangamo has been actively searching for a partner for its HIV program. They have
been looking for years, and despite consistent press releases touting the success of its
early HIV programs, no partnership has been signed. On the 3Q 2014 earnings call, CEO
Ed Lanphier said that they have been in "active discussions" with partners. Yet, on the 4Q
2014 earnings call, in response to a question whether a partnership would happen soon
after data from yet another phase 2 study for SB-728 would be announced in late 2015,
CEO Ed Lanphier admitted in the Q&A session that no partner was close.


We think this shows that experts have seen the HIV data, have come to the same
conclusions we have, and do not want to partner with Sangamo.


In summary:


1. Sangamo has a 20-year track record of drug development failure. Management has
enriched itself at the expense of shareholders. If you bought SGMO stock at $15 per
share on its IPO in April, 2000, you would have made 1.3% per year. Unfortunately, the
share count increased 5-fold in that same period of time.


2. Sangamo's approach is indirect and at best can ameliorate symptoms as opposed to
gene therapy approaches which simply replace the defective gene and offer the hope of a
cure.
5/18/2018 Beware Of Sangamo: 20-Year History Of Failures, Misadventures In HIV, And Flawed Approach In B-Thalassemia - Sangamo Therapeuti…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2986046-beware-of-sangamo-20-year-history-of-failures-misadventures-in-hiv-and-flawed-approach-in-b-thalassemia


