Page 1 of 4


GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC


Endurance International Group:


Malicious Activities
Page 2 of 4


Disclaimer:


By reading this report, you agree that use of GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s research is at your own risk.
In no event will you hold GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or
indirect trading losses caused by any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a
recommendation or solicitation to buy any securities. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC is not registered as
an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. Gotham City Research LLC is not affiliated or associated with
Gotham Asset Management, LLC or any of its affiliates.


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with
respect to securities covered herein. You represent to GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC that you have
sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this
report. You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person
unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.


You should assume that as of the publication date of this report, GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC stands to
profit in the event the issuer’s stock declines. We may buy, sell, cover or otherwise change the form or
substance of its position in the issuer. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC disclaims any obligation to notify
the market of any such changes.


Our research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, and opinions
prepared with respect to, among other things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer
faces and the potential impact of those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of
operations, as well as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital
markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions
may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties
beyond GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC’s control.


Our research and report expresses our opinions, which we have based upon generally available
information, field research, inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical
process. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC believes all information contained herein is accurate and
reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable.


However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind, whether express or
implied. GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC, makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy,
timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be obtained from its
use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC
is not obligated to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion
contained in them.


You should assume that GOTHAM CITY RESEARCH LLC has and/or will submit our findings with the
Securities Exchange Commission, and other entities.
Page 3 of 4


Table of Contents


I. Disclaimer
II. A Question Regarding Malicious Activities
Page 4 of 4


A Question Regarding Malicious Activities


Question:


Did your employees deliberately target customers within the internet underground community, despite
knowing that these accounts would be used for malicious activities, in violation of your own terms of
service? Were your employees instructed to do so?


Background:


Gotham City Research believes that the bulk of EIGI’s reported growth, profits, & cash flow disappear as
soon as the company’s suspect activities are exposed and decline.


Companies like Blinkx plc, Lumber Liquidators, and Home Capital Group, were all perceived by some
investors as good companies, with charismatic management, until they were not. Other investors were
aware of the red flags, yet shrugged off the concerns of whistleblowers and critics.


In all cases, the markets eventually cared about the whistleblowers’ and/or critics concerns, and each
companies’ shares subsequently declined -50% to -90%. We believe Endurance International Group is no
different from these companies.


Let’s suppose there were whistleblowers who can prove that EIGI intentionally targeted customers
engaging in malicious activities? Or let’s suppose that we or someone else can corroborate such claims.
Why would EIGI engage in such shady business practices?


For now, some market participants have played chicken with our and others’ concerns, just as they did in
the cases of Blinkx, Lumber Liquidators, and Home Capital Group. We recommend that you do not do so,
lest you be in for a surprise.
