page ! 


Ever!rande Real Es"a"e Group 


Dea!h Spiral 


• Hi!hly levera!ed: !o!al deb! over 4x shareholders’ equi!y 


• Relian! on shor!-!erm !undin" 


• Spirallin! in"eres" paymen"s 


• Ne!a"ive cash pro#i"s 


• Liabili!ies probably exceed value o! asse"s 


• S!ron" possibili!y insolven! 


In jus! a "ew years, Ever#rande Real Es!a!e Group (!icker: 
3333.HK) has !rown "rom a mid-sized, re!ional proper!y company 
in!o one o" China’s lar#es! developers. I!s ex!raordinary !row"h has 
been mainly deb!-!inanced. Ever"rande is hi"hly levera"ed wi#h 
lar!e borrowin!s and o"her liabili"ies balanced on a small sliver o# 
equi!y: !o!al deb! is now over "our !imes shareholders’ equi!y. I! is 
relian! on i!s lenders con!inuin" !o roll over shor!-!erm borrowin"s. 


Wi!h in!eres! paymen!s spirallin" ou! o# con!rol and cash pro#i!s 
likely !o be ne"a!ive !his year, !he company may already have 
reached a !ippin" poin! where in!eres! can only be paid ou! o# more 
deb!. "oreover, i!s liabili!ies probably exceed !he value o" i!s 
asse!s. In my view, !here is a s!ron" possibili!y !ha! Ever!rande is 
insolven!.  


Ni!el S"evenson cfa 
T: (852) 9311 9905 


ns@discoun!-inves!in".com 
www.discoun!-inves!in".com 


August 3, 2015 


Ticker: 3333.HK 


Share price: HK$5.13 


!arke" cap: HK$74bn 


Price/book: 1.2x 


NAV per share: n/a 


Discoun! !o NAV: n/a 


Dividend yield: 10.5%
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


highly leveraged 


debt-financed asset growth 


At the end of 2014, the company had total assets of almost Rmb500bn, a 
more than sevenfold increase in just five years (see Figure 1). It now has 
more than 300 developments located across mainland China. 


Half the growth in assets since 2010 has been financed with debt (see 
Figure 2), rising to two-thirds in the last couple of years. Equity’s share 
of total funding has fallen to just 13% (see Figure 3), despite an increased 
contribution from minority investors and significant revaluation gains 
on its investment properties. The proportion of financing provided by 
customer deposits on pre-sold properties has more than halved during 
this period. 


ballooning debt 


In just the last two years, total borrowings including perpetual capital 
instruments have more than tripled to Rmb215bn (see Figure 4). 
Furthermore, the company has become increasingly reliant on non-bank 
lenders. Bank borrowings now account for just over a third of total debt, 
while trust loans have increased to around 30%, compared with just 5% 
in 2010. 


Since 2013, the company has borrowed large amounts in the form of 
perpetual capital instruments. These are regarded as equity for account-
ing purposes, as they have no fixed repayment date and distributions 
can be deferred. However, shareholders should clearly treat them as 
debt, since they would be paid ahead of them in any bankruptcy. 
Moreover, because the perpetuals are issued by onshore subsidiaries, 
they would almost certainly rank ahead of the company’s offshore 
bonds. While the perpetuals have no maturity date, the expectation is 
that they will be redeemed relatively quickly, as the interest rate on 
them steps up to punitive levels after the second year. 


The company has several offshore bonds, denominated in both US dol-
lars and renminbi. Earlier this year, it issued US$1bn of five-year notes 
at a yield of 12%. It also recently raised Rmb20bn through domestic 
bond issues. 





Fi!ure 1: Breakdown o! "o"al asse"s 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 3: Overall sources o! !inancin" 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 4: Deb! breakdown 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 2: Asse" #inancin! con"ribu"ions since 2010 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


Gearing—defined as net debt, including the perpetuals, divided by 
shareholders’ equity—has increased dramatically since 2012, rising to 
around 300% at the last year-end (see Figure 6). Classifying the perpetu-
als as equity enables the company to claim gearing is much lower. 


short-term financing 


Evergrande has become increasingly dependent on short-term financ-
ing. At the start of the year, over half its balance sheet debt, around 
Rmb80bn, was due in 2015 and almost 90% was due within two years 
(see Figure 7). Furthermore, this does not include any refinancing of 
the perpetuals. 


Earlier this year, the company announced “strategic partnerships” with 
several Chinese banks, which provided it with credit lines totalling 
Rmb100bn. However, these appear to be uncommitted facilities, requir-
ing further agreement before they can be drawn down. The recently 
issued domestic bonds, which have maturities of up to seven years, pro-
vide some relief. However, this may be short-lived, as I expect the com-
pany’s cashflow to remain negative in 2015. 


Evergrande is reliant on the continuing support of its creditors. It con-
stantly needs to roll over existing debt and raise new funds. With unre-
stricted cash of just Rmb30bn, there is little margin for error and 
considerable, ongoing refinancing risk. The company’s high debt has 
been a long-standing concern for investors and analysts. However, there 
seems to be a high degree of complacency that the company will be able 
to access funding when needed. Moody’s appears to be expressing a 
widely held view when it recently commented, “the company will con-
tinue to receive funding support from its onshore banks and other lend-
ers”. Despite the rapid rise in gearing, Moody’s has not changed its B2 
rating on the offshore bonds since 2011. Evergrande’s onshore bonds 
were rated AAA by three domestic rating agencies. This may be 
overgenerous, but the reality is that domestic lenders probably will be 
repaid. However, in my view, it would be unwise for shareholders and 
offshore bondholders to assume that Evergrande is “too big to fail”. 


balance sheet stress 


There are several other indications of rising balance sheet stress. First, 
trade payables have grown much faster than construction spending in 
recent years. At the end of 2014, trade payables were 114% of construc-
tion costs included on the balance sheet in properties under develop-
ment (see Figure 8). This is high compared to other Chinese developers 


Fi!ure 5: Deb! a! las! year-end 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 6: Financial !earin! 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 7: Deb! ma!uri!y pro"ile 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 8: Trade payables 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


(see Figure 9). A reduction in trade payables to the average level of 65% 
would result in a cash outflow of around Rmb39bn. 


A second sign of stress is the sharp increase in the amount of restricted 
cash attributable to guarantee deposits for bank acceptance notes and 
loans. BANs are in effect post-dated cheques guaranteed by a bank. 
These deposits have increased enormously in the last couple of years 
(see Figure 10), suggesting either a shortage of other collateral or a big 
increase in the quantity of BANs outstanding. 


Finally, in 2014, the company factored a large number of receivables. 
The amount was not disclosed, but the finance charge recognised was 
substantial at around Rmb750m. 





Fi!ure 9: Trade payables as a percen!a"e o# 
cons!ruc!ion cos!s 


 
Source: company accounts 


Fi!ure 10: Guaran!ee deposi!s "or bank borrowin#s 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


interest time bomb 


weakening cashflow 


In the past couple of years, the company’s cashflow has deteriorated 
significantly (see Figure 11). In 2014, it suffered a net cash outflow of 
around Rmb70bn. Evergrande has shown an astonishing level of finan-
cial incontinence. Despite repeated assertions that “cash is king”, the 
company has invested increasing amounts in property assets and new 
businesses, as well as returning substantial sums to shareholders. 


One of the main reasons for the deterioration has been a big increase in 
spending on development properties. Prior to 2012, Evergrande had 
rapidly built up a sizeable landbank, including a substantial number of 
large sites on the edges of lower tier cities (see Figure 12). The com-
pany’s low average land cost reflected the sites’ less desirable locations. 
The expectation was that these cities would grow at a faster rate than 
established cities like Beijing and Shanghai. The company would benefit 
from any increase in land value, as the projects are developed in several 
phases. However, in recent years, many lower tier cities have suffered 
from a significant oversupply of new properties. Therefore, since 2012, 
the company has shifted its focus towards the established markets, 
which have proved more resilient, spending large amounts acquiring 
land at much higher prices. The average cost of land acquired in the last 
couple of years was around four times the level of prior years; the total 
amount spent increased substantially even though total land reserves 
have remained largely unchanged. 


The cash outflow may decline this year on lower land payments, but net 
cashflow is likely to remain negative. At the last year-end, the company 
still had substantial off-balance sheet contractual commitments primar-
ily for construction work (see Figure 13). Despite having a landbank 
equal to around seven times annual completions, the company will need 
to continue acquiring land to maintain sales, as many of its existing 
developments are long-term projects that are being built in several 
phases. Working capital is unlikely to provide a signficant cash inflow 
given the already large trade payables balance. 





Fi!ure 11: Ne! cash"low 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 12: To!al land reserves and avera"e land 
price 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 13: Con!rac!ual commi!men!s 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


interest tipping point 


Evergrande’s weak cashflow is structural and is not just due to high 
short-term investment. The company’s biggest problem is its rapidly 
rising interest payments. Finance costs in the profit and loss are mini-
mal as almost all the interest is capitalised on the balance sheet. Most of 
the capitalised interest is included in properties under development; it 
should eventually be expensed in cost of sales when the properties are 
sold, but the short-term impact on profits of higher interest payments is 
limited. 


Total interest expenses, including capitalised interest and profit 
attributable to perpetuals, more than doubled in 2014 to around 
Rmb19bn, while EBITDA interest cover fell to around 1.2x (see Figure 
14). Interest expenses will almost certainly be significantly higher in 
2015. Figure 15 shows interest expenses in each half-year period over 
the last five years; since the second half of 2013, they have risen at an 
accelerating rate, to almost Rmb23bn on an annualised basis in the 
second half of 2014. 


The company has reached a tipping point where rising interest pay-
ments will lead to negative cash earnings. Underlying cash earnings—
calculated as EBITDA adjusted for non-cash items including interest 
expenses, minus cash interest (including distributions on perpetuals) 
and cash tax—fell almost to zero in 2014 due to the sharp increase in 
interest costs (see Figure 16). I expect underlying cash earnings to be 
negative in 2015, even assuming a 25% increase in EBITDA. This does 
not include cash outflows from investment and dividends. 


Interest expenses were higher than cash interest in 2014 mainly because 
the former includes the implied cost of factoring the receivables and 
accrued profits on the perpetuals were higher than cash distributions. 


Evergrande’s average interest cost is currently around 10%. Some of its 
borrowings, particularly the trust loans, will be significantly more 
expensive. The recently issued domestic bonds are a cheaper source of 
funding, although the impact on the average cost of debt will be limited. 
Interest costs could increase significantly if the company is unable to 
refinance its perpetuals. For the first two years, they have an average 
interest rate of between 8% and 13%; after this, the interest rates steps 
up to between 12% and 20%. I have assumed the average interest rate on 
the perpetuals is 10% this year; an increase to 16% would add around 
Rmb3bn to the company’s interest bill. 


Fi!ure 14: In!eres! cover 


 
Source: Evergrande, author’s estimates 


Fi!ure 15: Hal! yearly in!eres! expenses 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 16: Underlyin! cash earnin!s 


 
Source: Evergrande, author’s estimates
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


erratic corporate finance 


The company takes a short-term, opportunistic approach to corporate 
finance. Last year, it bought back 1.8bn shares (around 11% of the shares 
in issue and 30% of the free float), having issued 1bn shares in a share 
placing the previous year. In May this year, the company took 
advantage of the run-up in its shares, to issue 820m shares in another 
placing. However, barely a month later, it started buying back large 
numbers of shares. It has since repurchased more shares than it has just 
issued and more than a fifth of the free float. Adjusting for the recent 
dividend, the company has bought a high proportion of the shares at 
above the placing price. A more detailed analysis of the buybacks is 
included in Appendix 1. 


Despite its weak finances, the company has paid dividends of Rmb0.43 
per share for both 2013 and 2014, giving it a yield of over 10%. In the last 
two years, it has paid total dividends of Rmb15bn. This includes the 
2012 dividend, which unusually was not paid until the end of 2013. Of 
the total, the controlling shareholder, Mr Hui Ka Yan has pocketed 
around Rmb10bn. 





Fi!ure 17: Recen! equi!y !ransac!ions 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


weakening profitability 


deteriorating return on capital 


Contracted sales have continued to grow rapidly, increasing by over 30% 
in 2014 despite weak property markets. However, a fundamental prob-
lem for Evergrande is that it has maintained sales momentum only 
through increased investment. In recent years, capital employed has 
grown significantly faster than sales (see Figure 18). Return on capital 
has fallen sharply, primarily due to the decline in asset turnover, and is 
now lower than its cost of capital. Adjusted return on average capital—
before corporate tax, but after deducting land appreciation tax (LAT), 
and excluding revaluation gains and losses from “other businesses”—
has halved since 2011, falling to just 9% in 2014 and 13% for the develop-
ment business (see Figure 19). If losses from “other businesses” are 
included, 2014 return on capital was just 8%. With debt accounting for 
most of the company’s capital, this explains why cash earnings are likely 
to turn negative. 


While growth in properties under development has been the main rea-
son for the increase in capital employed, other factors have also contrib-
uted, including the accumulation of investment properties, the reduced 
inflow of customer deposits and the increased inventory of completed 
properties (see Figure 20). Return on capital will probably fall further in 
2015, given the growth in year-end capital employed, and is unlikely to 
improve materially in the near term. The company is inherently “asset 
heavy”. Substantial amounts of capital are tied up in slow-moving pro-
jects; the market downturn will have reduced their speed of develop-
ment even further. 


declining cash collections 


Considerable weight seems to be attached to monthly property sales, 
which are widely tracked by analysts. The figures need to be treated 
with some caution, as they are not audited; there is no guarantee that 
they are calculated on a consistent basis. However, despite the appar-
ently strong sales performance, there are signs that the company is 
struggling to maintain momentum. Pre-sale deposits as a percentage of 
contracted sales have declined since 2012 (see Figure 21) and in abso-
lute terms, have only increased by a small amount. This is consistent 
with the company’s cash collection rates of around 85% in recent years. 


Fi!ure 18: Con!rac!ed sales vs. capi!al employed 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 19: Adjus!ed re!urn on capi!al employed 


 
Source: Evergrande, author’s estimates 


Fi!ure 20: Comple!ed proper!ies "or sale 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 21: Pre-sale deposi!s 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page ! 


The slowdown in cash collections is apparent from the sharp increase in 
trade receivables, which have grown much faster than property sales 
(see Figure 22). The total balance increased by 70% last year, despite 
the company factoring a large number of receivables. Non-current trade 
receivables, which were zero a few years ago, grew to Rmb5bn in 2014. 
The increase is not caused by overdue receivables, which remain rela-
tively low. 


Anecdotal evidence also points to lower cash collections. Media reports 
last year claimed that the company was lending some buyers up to four-
fifths of the required 30% deposit and that it was increasingly allowing 
buyers to pay for properties in instalments. Earlier this year, the com-
pany launched a money-back offer on all property sales, whereby buyers 
can obtain a full refund at any time prior to occupation. If this offer is 
genuine, without any major exclusions, it adds a high level of contin-
gency to contracted sales and reduces the reliability of contracted sales 
figures. It would also exacerbate the impact of any further market down-
turn and potentially exposes the company to speculative behaviour. If 
property prices fall, buyers will have the option to either renegotiate the 
sales price or cancel entirely. Though this may not bother the company 
if it boosts near-term sales. 


margin pressure 


Gross margins on property sales have remained stable despite the 
recent market downturn (see Figure 23). However, they are likely to 
come under increasing pressure in the next few years. 


First, rising levels of capitalised interest will ultimately feed through to 
cost of sales. At the last year-end, capitalised interest accounted for 
nearly 9% of property under development on the balance sheet, but I 
estimate was only around 6% of cost of sales in 2014 (see Figure 24). 
Over the next few years, as development properties are completed and 
sales recognised, the gap should narrow, suggesting the gross margin 
will fall by around two percentage points. Second, the shift in strategy 
towards more established cities has resulted in a big increase in land 
costs. Contracted sales prices have also increased (see Figure 25), but it 
is unclear whether this will be enough to offset the higher land costs. 
The company is unlikely to have received any bargains acquiring land 
quickly in competitive markets. Finally, weak markets will have put a 
cap on sales prices over the last year or so. Most of these sales have not 
yet been recognised. A fall in margins could further erode the com-
pany’s already weak cash earnings and interest cover. 


Fi!ure 22: Trade receivables 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 23: Proper!y developmen! mar"ins 


 
Source: Evergrande, author’s estimates 


Fi!ure 24: Capi!alised in!eres! 


 
Source: Evergrande, author’s estimates 


Fi!ure 25: Avera!e con"rac"ed sales price 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


falling profits 


Looking solely at the company’s preferred profit measures—net profit 
and core business profit—could give the misleading impression that 
shareholders have enjoyed solid profit growth in the last few years. In 
2014, net profit increased by 31% and core business profit by 17% (see 
Figure 26). However, both measures are before deduction of profits 
attributable to minority shareholders and holders of the perpetuals. Fur-
thermore, while core business profit excludes profits from the revalua-
tion of investment properties, in 2014 it included Rmb3.8bn of unreal-
ised fair value gains on financial assets, consisting of holdings in listed 
Chinese A-shares. It is hard to argue that profits from trading shares are 
part of the company’s core business. Although not directly relevant 
here, the accounting treatment of these financial assets raises additional 
concerns (see Appendix 2 for a detailed analysis). 


Looking at profit attributable to shareholders, the picture is less rosy: 
adjusted net profit excluding all revaluation gains fell by nearly 70% in 
2014. The perpetuals accounted for over half the after-tax profit while 
minority investors also took an increased share. Net profit was also 
depressed by losses from the company’s “other businesses”. While the 
profit fall was not due to lower property development profits, it 
nonetheless illustrates the company’s precarious financial position and 
the impact of rising interest costs, in this case from the perpetuals. It 
also undermines any justification for paying the dividend, which was 
more than double adjusted EPS of Rmb0.19. 


unfocused diversification 


Since 2013, the company has expanded into a wide range of new ven-
tures. The most important of these is the mineral water business, which 
was launched at the end of 2013. The company made several acquisi-
tions in 2014, branching into grain and cooking oil, and dairy products. 
It also gained control of listed magazine publisher with a view to 
transforming it into a cosmetic surgery and healthcare business. 


The new ventures have been a significant drag on the company’s 
financial performance.  Its “other businesses” segment made a loss of 
Rmb3bn in 2014; the water business alone contributed more than 
Rmb2bn of this, mainly due to high marketing costs. The company 
expects its new businesses to be profitable in 2015, although this seems 
very optimistic. 


Fi!ure 26: Pro!i" comparison 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !! 


overvalued assets 


I have serious doubts about the value of a significant proportion of 
Evergrande’s assets. With total assets now more than nine times 
shareholders’ equity, even a small reduction in their value would com-
pletely wipe out shareholders’ equity. 


investment properties 


The company has investment properties valued at Rmb62bn, split 
between commercial premises of Rmb30bn and car-parking spaces of 
Rmb32bn. Their value is now more than shareholders’ equity, having 
grown rapidly in the last few years through fair value gains and the addi-
tion of new properties (see Figure 27). By my reckoning, the company is 
the third largest owner of investment properties in mainland China, 
behind Wanda Commercial and China Resources Land. 


The number of investment properties has increased substantially in the 
last couple of years. At the last year-end, the company had commercial 
properties with a total GFA of 2.7m sq.m and 250,000 car-parking 
spaces, compared with 0.9m sq.m and 98,000 just two years earlier. 
Around a third of the properties are under construction. In addition, 
there appear to be a significant number of commercial premises and 
parking spaces in properties under development, presumably for near-
term sale. 


There has been a big jump in balance sheet additions to investment 
properties in the last couple of years (see Figure 28). The reason for the 
increase is not entirely clear. However, in 2014, total cash additions to 
PP&E and investment properties, which are not disclosed separately in 
the cashflow statement, were just Rmb8bn (even though Rmb10bn was 
recorded in the interim report for the first half of the year), compared 
with total balance sheet additions for both of Rmb22bn. I assume the 
difference consists of capitalised interest and transfers from other 
balance sheet accounts, although such movements should be disclosed 
separately. This raises the question whether unsold properties have 
been transferred to investment properties. 


Rental income from investment properties is minimal. It was just 
Rmb0.1bn in 2014, representing a net yield of just 0.4% on the value of 
completed properties, most of which do not appear to be generating any 
income. The value of almost all the properties is based on the sales 
prices of comparable properties. Only around 5% of the properties have 


Fi!ure 27: Inves!men! proper!ies 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 28: Balance shee! addi!ions !o inves!men! 
proper!ies 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


been valued by income capitalisation. The company booked revaluation 
gains of more than Rmb9bn in 2014 and Rmb27bn in the last five years. 
Most of the gains seem to be from adding new properties, rather than 
increasing values for existing ones.  


Evergrande seems to be stockpiling properties for later sale without any 
realistic prospect of generating any income. It benefits by spreading 
land and construction costs over a greater number of properties. The 
company has said that it expects the value of the parking spaces to rise 
as Chinese car ownership increases. However, with the assets earning 
little or no income, it is doubtful whether any capital appreciation will 
exceed the financing costs. The company has sold around Rmb5bn of 
investment properties in the last couple of years, which is only a small 
fraction of the total. My concern is that it would be impossible to sell all 
the properties at their balance sheet value. One of the major weaknesses 
of using transaction prices to value the properties is that it does not take 
into account the level of supply. The low rental income also raises ques-
tions about the genuine level of demand for the properties.  


Under Hong Kong accounting rules (HKAS 40), investment properties 
are held for rental income or capital appreciation, while properties held 
for sale in the ordinary course of business should be included in inven-
tory. The company appears to be taking advantage of the fact it may not 
sell the properties for some time to classify them as investment proper-
ties. This treatment enables the company to recognise profits even 
before the properties are completed, and is an easy way for Evergrande 
to boost profits and create “value”. 


In my view, the accounting treatment is highly questionable. It is hard 
to avoid the conclusion that the investment properties represent 
speculative building. I was unable to find any other major Chinese 
developer that has significant amounts of completed investment proper-
ties on its balance sheet generating little or no income. Backing out the 
revaluation gains would I estimate reduce shareholders’ equity by 
around a third, or approximately Rmb17bn net of deferred tax. Though, 
without more information, it is impossible to know whether this repre-
sents a realistic value. 


property development business 


The weak outlook for many of the company’s markets raises questions 
about the value of its land reserves. At the end of 2014, the total book 
value of development land including prepayments was around 
Rmb157bn, which in the absence of impairments is recorded at cost.
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


The slow pace at which a significant number of its legacy projects are 
being developed exacerbates these value concerns. The company pro-
vides limited commentary on the performance of its projects, even at an 
aggregate level, and no explanation for any delays. Less information was 
provided in the 2014 annual report than in prior years. Figure 29 pro-
vides details of twelve of its largest projects that have suffered signifi-
cant delays in the last few years. All the projects are wholly owned and 
together they account for almost 30% of the company’s landbank. The 
figures, which are all as at 30 June 2014, are the most recent available. 
The list is not comprehensive, as it excludes many smaller projects, but 
nonetheless, it gives an idea of the scale of the problem. 


Fi!ure 29: Delayed projec"s  


 
Source: Evergrande 


The majority of the developments in Figure 29 are “resort” projects, 
with additional facilities including hotels. They are presumably targeted 
primarily at investment buyers. A good example is the Royal Scenic 
Peninsula in Chengdu, which is located around 50km from the city cen-
tre. The site was acquired in 2010, with construction starting in May 
and pre-sales in November of that year. It is one of Evergrande’s largest 
developments. Total planned GFA is around 5.3m sq.m, up from 
around 3.0m sq.m initially. By the end of 2010, around 640,000 sq.m 
was recorded as “under construction” and was due to be completed by 
2012. However, by 30 June 2014, only 450,000 sq.m had been com-
pleted. A further 4.9m sq.m remained under development, of which a 
staggering 2.8m sq.m was assigned for car parking—enough for around 
100,000 spaces—and only 1.8m sq.m for residential. 


Estimating the impact of the development slowdown on the value of the 
landbank is difficult. However, using some broad assumptions, a 33% 
decrease in the value of 50m sq.m of land, acquired at an average cost of 
Rmb600 per sq.m, implies a potential reduction in value of around 
Rmb10bn.
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


Evergrande’s high debt levels have artificially boosted the book value of 
its development properties, as well as its equity value, since any addi-
tional interest is treated as an asset. At the last year-end, I estimate the 
company had around Rmb19bn of capitalised interest on its balance 
sheet—almost all in properties under development. Capitalised interest 
now represents nearly 9% of the book value of properties under develop-
ment (see Figure 30), which is significantly higher than other Chinese 
property developers. 


My concern is that extra costs and other potential problems are hidden 
on Evergrande’s balance sheet. Almost all development costs including 
interest are capitalised and only recognised when a property is sold. 
Normally, this is within a year or two, but it could be much longer given 
project delays. It is also notable that capex for the property develop-
ment segment increased significantly in 2014 (see Figure 31). The rea-
son for the sharp rise is unclear; most of the spending was added to 
“construction in progress” within PP&E. 


other businesses 


Evergrande’s “other businesses” include hotels, property construction, 
“other property development related services” and the new businesses, 
as well as its 60% interest in the Guangzhou Evergrande football club, 
which is a joint venture with Alibaba. Total assets at the last year-end 
were Rmb14bn. The hotels almost certainly account for most of the 
assets. The company has opened a small number of self-managed hotels 
in some of its larger developments, with more planned. Perhaps tell-
ingly, the company provides no information on their operational or 
financial performance. The hotels are probably loss making and worth 
significantly less than their book value, particularly as most of the 
developments in which the hotels are located, are only partially built. By 
way of comparison, Shangri-La Asia is trading at just 0.65x book value. 
Applying a similar multiple to the segment assets implies a reduction in 
value of around Rmb5bn. In reality, the discount should probably be 
larger. 


Limited information makes valuing the other businesses difficult. How-
ever, their intrinsic value is unlikely to be material. The company 
recently announced plans to list the bottled water business, its 
entertainment business and Guangzhou Evergrande on China’s New 
Third Board. This is an over-the-counter trading platform and is not a 
full stock market listing. At least initially, the company is not planning 
to sell any shares. The announcements look like an attempt to generate 
positive newsflow on the company’s value, perhaps to act as collateral 


Fi!ure 30: Capi!alised in!eres! in proper!ies under 
developmen! 


 
Source: Evergrande 


Fi!ure 31: Proper!y developmen! capex 


 
Source: Evergrande
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


for debt, and potentially take advantage of any reinflation of China’s 
stock market bubble. 


The example of Evergrande Health (ticker: 708.HK) provides some 
indication of the valuation benefits a separate listing can provide. Earlier 
this year, Evergrande acquired a 74.99% interest in a Hong Kong-listed 
publishing company, New Media Group. It announced plans to turn the 
company into a cosmetic surgery and healthcare business, renaming it 
Evergrande Health. Since then, the new business has acquired a new 
clinic in Tianjin, signed a co-operation agreement with a Korean cos-
metic surgery business and opened an “Internet+” community 
healthcare centre in one of Evergrande’s developments. Notwithstand-
ing the limited substance, investors, seduced by the huge potential 
opportunities in China for cosmetic surgery and other medical services, 
have bid up Evergrande Health’s share price to more than six times the 
price Evergrande paid for its shareholding and around twenty times the 
undisturbed price, valuing the company at around Rmb7bn. The shares 
have more than doubled in less than a month; there still seems to be 
strong demand from some investors for Chinese “concept stocks”. It 
appears that Evergrande is trying to repeat the same trick with the 
proposed acquisition of Mascotte, which is, in effect, a listed shell com-
pany, that it plans with Tencent to turn into an “internet community 
service online platform”. These acquisitions seem to sidestep the Hong 
Kong’s reverse takeover rules, as there is no substantial acquisition.  


valuation summary 


Evergrande’s share price has been extremely volatile in the last few 
months. Helped by the share buy-backs, it has bounced back strongly 
from its recent low. The shares have risen more than 60% since the start 
of the year and are now trading at 1.2x book value. However, with a 
return on capital below its cost of capital, the development business 
should be valued no higher than book value. 


In my view, because of the specific issues discussed above, the company 
is worth significantly less than its book value. There is a strong possibil-
ity that the value of its assets is less than its liabilities. Reversing the 
revaluation gains on its investment properties, reducing the value of the 
landbank and other assets, and excluding capitalised interest would 
completely wipe out shareholders’ equity (see Figure 32). Moreover, 
the position will have deteriorated since the year-end after paying out 
Rmb7bn for the 2014 dividend. The company’s equity continues to be 
hollowed out, although it will, no doubt, be boosted at the interim 
results by more revaluation gains. 


Fi!ure 32: Adjus!ed shareholders' equi!y 


 
Source: author’s estimates
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


conclusions 


Evergrande’s balance sheet issues, including the use of perpetuals, are 
well known and are obvious from a brief look at the financial statements. 
This has perhaps contributed to a view that any concerns must be “in 
the price”. There also seems to be a belief that provided the company 
continues growing, its debt will not be a problem. However, this fails to 
take into account the spiralling interest payments and falling return on 
capital. Furthermore, the capitalisation of interest gives a misleading 
impression of the company’s financial health. In reality, ill-disciplined 
growth has been the cause of many of the company’s problems. It will 
not be possible for the company to outgrow its debt and ultimately it 
will run out of sources of funding. 


There are risks in shorting the stock. Its share price is very volatile. The 
company is well known in China and its shares have been popular with 
mainland investors through the Hong Kong–Shanghai Stock Connect. 
The company is also clearly willing to use its limited remaining financial 
resources to boost its share price. However, the current buy-back pro-
gramme, which must be halted in the month before its interim results, 
has an air of desperation; without the company’s purchases, there 
appears to be very little supporting the shares. 


My analysis raises a significant number of issues. I have made numerous 
attempts to contact the company, but, so far, have had no response to 
my requests for more information. I currently have a small short posi-
tion in Evergrande’s shares. 


disclosure 


I have a short position in Evergrande Real Estate Group. 


general disclaimer 


This report has been prepared for information purposes only and is not investment advice or a 


recommendation. This report is not an offer or solicitation to buy or sell securities. This report is 


based on publicly available information, which is believed to be reliable, but has not been 


independently verified. All statements contained herein are the opinions of the author and are not 


statements of fact. No representation is made as to the accuracy or completeness of this report. 


No reliance should be placed on, and no liability is accepted for, any information, representations, 


projections, estimates, valuations or opinions contained in this report. Any opinions, projections, 


valuations or estimates in this report are those of the author at the date of publication and are 


subject to change without notice. The author may have positions in the securities of companies 


mentioned in this report. The report may not be reproduced or distributed, in whole or in part, 


without the author’s consent.
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


appendix a 


evergrande share buy-backs: what!s the game" 


There has been some strange behaviour recently from Evergrande, even 
by the company’s standards. Just a month after raising HK$4.6bn 
through a share placing, the company started buying back shares. It has 
since repurchased more than the number of shares placed, pushing the 
share price up by nearly 40%. Furthermore, it has bought shares at 
prices above the placing price taking into account the recent dividend. 


At the end of May this year, the company took advantage of the run-up 
in its share price to raise additional equity. It placed 820m shares at a 
price of HK$5.67 per share, an 18% discount to the previous closing 
price, triggering a sharp drop in the company’s share price. The net 
amount raised was HK$5.06 per share, after deducting costs and the 
dividend of around HK$0.55, which the new shareholders received at 
the beginning of July. 


Since 8 July, the company has repurchased 1,151m shares, more than 
the number issued and nearly a fifth of the free float, at a total cost of 
HK$5.5bn. Between 8 and 31 July, buy-backs accounted for almost 40% 
of the total share volume, increasing to nearly half in recent days (see 
Figure A). The company acquired shares at up HK$5.50 and an average 
price of HK$4.76. 


Evergrande’s share price has increased by nearly 40% since starting the 
buy-backs while its Hong Kong-listed peers have been flat (see Figure 
B). Adjusting for the recent dividend, which was also paid on the plac-
ing shares, the company has bought shares at a significant premium to 
the placing price. 


Under Hong Kong’s Listing Rules (para 10.06), the company can only 
repurchase shares at prices, which are less than 5% above the average 
closing price for the previous five trading days. This maximum permit-
ted price, in effect, a hard ceiling for purchases on any given day. Figure 
C shows the maximum price paid by Evergrande each day compared to 
this maximum permitted price. Except 31 July, on each day that 
Evergrande has bought back shares, it has done so right up to this limit. 





Fi!ure A: Share buy-backs 


 
Source: Evergrande, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing 


Fi!ure B: Share per!ormance 


 
Source: Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing 


Fi!ure C: !aximum purchase price vs. maximum 
permi!!ed price 


 
Source: Evergrande, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


On three days during this period, the company did not purchase any 
shares while on several others, it bought only a small number. The likely 
reason for this is that it was not able to buy shares on these days, as the 
maximum permitted price was lower than, or only slightly above, the 
“Low” share price on that day (see Figure D). 


The company has just over 300m shares left of its existing buy-back 
mandate. It has signalled its intention to repurchase more shares by 
seeking shareholder approval to renew the mandate. A recent press 
release indicated that the purpose of the buy-backs was “to fight against 
malicious short selling”. Nonetheless, the company will have to halt 
purchases shortly. The company must publish its interim results by the 
end of August and buy-backs are prohibited in the month before. It will 
be interesting to see how the shares perform without this prop. 


Evergrande appears to be actively trying push up its share price as high 
as possible. There has been little subtlety to the buying. Contrary to 
some views expressed, it is not true to say that the company’s actions 
are “shareholder friendly”. It is not just short sellers that are hurt. The 
only shareholders that benefit from the company’s largesse are those 
who sell their shares; the remainder suffer a dilution in value if the com-
pany pays more than the shares’ intrinsic value. Nonetheless, the real 
puzzle is why the company is so keen to boost its share price. 





Fi!ure D: "aximum permi##ed price vs. day 
hi!h/low 


 
Source: Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


appendix b 


does evergrande still own shares in huaxia bank! 


Evergrande’s accounting treatment of its financial assets raises a num-
ber of questions. In the second half of 2013 and first half of 2014, the 
company accumulated available-for-sale financial assets totalling 
Rmb6.2bn, mainly Chinese A-shares. Most of this appears to be 
accounted for by on-market purchases of shares in Huaxia Bank. In 
early 2014, the company announced that it had acquired a 4.5% 
shareholding in the bank at a cost of Rmb3.3bn. The announcement was 
made in a regulatory filing with the Hong Kong stock exchange, as the 
acquisition’s size made it a discloseable transaction. The reason given 
for the purchase was “co-operation” between the two companies, alt-
hough there was no mention of any actual agreement. 


At 30 June 2014, after disposals and revaluations, the company had 
available-for-sale assets of Rmb5.0bn. By the year-end, the balance had 
reduced to just Rmb0.1bn; the company disposed of all the listed invest-
ments in available-for-sale financial assets during the second half of the 
year. However, at some point during the second half, it also acquired 
Rmb7.2bn of A-shares, which it recorded as financial assets at fair value 
through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), rather than as available-for-sale. 
The reason for the changed treatment is not disclosed. 


For financial assets classified as FVTPL, unrealised gains and losses are 
recognised in the profit and loss, whereas for those classified as availa-
ble-for-sale, gains and losses are generally only recognised on disposal. 
Both are recorded at fair value in the balance sheet. Assets are catego-
rised when acquired. Under Hong Kong accounting rules (HKAS 39), 
the shares should be treated as FVTPL if they are held for trading; 
otherwise they should be classified as available-for-sale. Any assets 
classified as available-for-sale cannot later be reclassified as FVTPL. 


In a conversation with the someone from Evergrande’s investor rela-
tions team, I was told that the company had sold its shareholding in 
Huaxia Bank. Surprisingly, the company has made no announcement 
regarding any sale. Evergrande was also listed as a related party in the 
bank’s 2014 annual report with a shareholding of more than 5% at 31 
December 2014. 


The change in the company’s treatment of its A-share investments 
from available-for-sale to FVTPL was well timed. It had a big, positive 
impact on 2014 profits: the rapid increase in the Chinese market at the
august !, "#$% 


evergrande real estate group page !" 


end of the year resulted in the company recognising gains of Rmb3.8bn, 
which helped bolster its profits. At the end of 2014, the company had A-
share investments with a market value of around Rmb11bn. It is unclear 
whether it has added to or sold any of its holdings since then. The 
investments, which account for a substantial proportion of the com-
pany’s equity, add a further level of volatility to what is an already 
highly leveraged balance sheet.
