5/21/2018 Ebix: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part - Ebix Inc (NASDAQ:EBIX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3899006-ebix-waiting-hardest-part 1/16


Ebix: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part
Feb. 16, 2016 1:58 PM ET63 comments
by: Melissa Davis


Summary


Ebix has already blown its chance to meet the wild expectations that it recently set
for its most celebrated business deal.


The company has yet to officially test - let alone launch - a new e-trading platform
that was supposed to start generating “substantial revenue” at the beginning of this
year.


After winning the bid for that big-ticket deal based upon its “tried and tested”
technology, Ebix faced demands for a “complete rebuild” of its outdated platform
instead.


Looking somewhat desperate, Ebix recently offered to purchase a well-established
rival that has won over a growing crowd of loyal customers since it lost the bid for
that overseas contract.


Nine months after reporting that it had reached “very advanced states of contract
finalization,” Ebix continues to wait for a formal contract that outlines the financial
terms of that deal.


If Ebix (NASDAQ: EBIX) feels tempted to brag about its most celebrated project again, the
company might want to bite its tongue. The last few times that Ebix discussed the
electronic trading platform that it has agreed to provide for the London insurance market,
the company made some wildly optimistic predictions that now look totally divorced from
reality.


During its most recent quarterly conference call, Ebix really tested its luck. With less than
two months left on the 2015 calendar, Ebix confidently reported that it remained on
schedule to launch its revolutionary e-trading platform - and start generating "substantial
revenue" from that new service - by the first of this year. Given the current status of that
project, however, Ebix must (or at least should) have known that the company stood little,
if any, realistic chance of actually meeting that lofty goal.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EBIX

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/EBIX/transcripts

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3658726-ebixs-ebix-ceo-robin-raina-q3-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript
5/21/2018 Ebix: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part - Ebix Inc (NASDAQ:EBIX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3899006-ebix-waiting-hardest-part 2/16


While Ebix has shared no further updates on that overseas project, despite a request to
do so for this article, a London-based trade publication focused on the insurance industry
last week revealed the following:


Ebix has fallen behind schedule on that elaborate project because (as predicted by this
author last spring) the company basically needed to start over and build a new e-
trading platform from scratch. Although Ebix reportedly won the bid for that big-ticket
project based upon the "tried and tested" nature of its existing technology, the
company soon found itself forced to replace its outdated platform with a modern
solution instead.
As of last week, Ebix had yet to even begin testing its platform in a pilot program that it
was originally scheduled to take place during the fourth quarter of last year. Under the
revised schedule set forth by Private Placement Limited (PPL), the organization in
charge of the project, Ebix will now aim to start that overdue pilot program by the end
of the month - although "some in the market remain skeptical about the initiative" - if it
possibly can.
Ebix remains in limbo, too. A year after landing that big-ticket project, Ebix continues to
wait for PPL to nail down all of the agreements that it needs in order to present the
company with a formal contract that spells out the financial terms of that high-profile
deal.


Ebix sure has sparked a lot of controversy since the company won the PPL deal, though.
Just listen to some of the complaints voiced by London market experts who clearly resent
Ebix and/or expect its new e-trading platform to fail.


"The (request for proposals) process stated that the PPL board wanted a tried and
tested platform and would not accept new technology," one industry expert reminded
The Insurance Insider in that same article, a story published last week but widely
overlooked outside of the London insurance industry up to now. "But Ebix is now
using a brand-new platform and has ended up with a very expensive new piece of
kit, which is not ready to use. They have basically broken everything they said they
were going to do."


(Author's Note: Since The Insurance Insider requires a subscription to access its articles, I
have decided against sharing the full text of this story with the general public due to
potential copyright violations.)



http://www.insuranceinsider.com/-1258904/1

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3139896-ebix-inc-taking-a-premature-bow-for-an-overhyped-business-deal

https://www.insuranceday.com/ece_incoming/tried-and-tested-ebix-wins-london-market-placing-platform-tender.htm
5/21/2018 Ebix: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part - Ebix Inc (NASDAQ:EBIX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3899006-ebix-waiting-hardest-part 3/16


Unwilling to wait around for Ebix to roll out its overdue platform, the publication further
reported, industry players have flocked to a competing system operated by rival
Xchanging - the very company that Ebix beat out to win the PPL deal - or searched for
other alternatives instead.


"Every company thinks that it has the best technology and will not want to join a
common tech platform," a senior market executive declared in the story. "That would
just be a competitive disadvantage."


So "we're seeing people do placing on other platforms," another industry source added. "I
know the Xchanging reinsurance platform has now placed many billions of dollars of their
reinsurance programs" all by itself.


No wonder Ebix recently decided to launch a bid for Xchanging that, if successful, would
have allowed the company to claim all of that business as its own. During a conference
call that it hosted 10 days before it entered that bidding war, Ebix had given investors
every reason to believe that its widely anticipated e-trading platform would soon hit the
London insurance market and provide the company with a powerful new revenue stream.


For a company running so far behind schedule, Ebix sounded awfully confident.


"I am pleased to report that we continue to work aggressively towards the date of 1
of January of 2016 in terms of getting the PPL solution ready for prime time," Ebix
CEO Robin Raina declared less than two months ahead of that looming deadline.
"Our dedicated team of technology staff, both in London and offshore, have been
working closely with the PPL program management group to ensure that we are
ready with all their enhancement requests and additional functionality requests by
their intended effective date of 1 of January of 2016. We expect the deal to
contribute substantial revenue in the beginning of Q1 of 2016 and (provide) a
consistent recurring and predictive momentum" from there.


Maybe Ebix should have tried a little harder to gain control of Xchanging by sweetening its
offer for the company before it ran out of time. With Ebix stuck on the sidelines for the past
year, trying to build an elaborate new e-trading platform that it still needs to test,
Xchanging has rushed to take advantage of that generous head-start by recruiting a crowd
of customers to its rival platform and hooking them on its own e-placing services instead.



https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2015/11/16/787550/0/en/Ebix-Inc-Reports-Possible-Offer-for-Xchanging-Plc.html

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3658726-ebixs-ebix-ceo-robin-raina-q3-2015-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single

http://www.reuters.com/article/us-xchanging-m-a-ebix-idUSKCN0UP0NV20160111
5/21/2018 Ebix: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part - Ebix Inc (NASDAQ:EBIX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3899006-ebix-waiting-hardest-part 4/16


Big surprise. Both Xchanging and its partner, The Insurance Workplace (TIW), remained
confident in the prospects for their rival e-trading solution - and determined to aggressively
grow their competing business - even after losing out on the PPL deal with a proposal that
many actually regarded as superior.


"We have our own placing solution in use by a number of brokers, which we believe
is superior in many ways to their offering," TIW Chief Executive Officer David
Edward proclaimed a few months after Ebix walked away with the PPL deal. "We are
not going anywhere, and will continue to develop our portfolio of electronic trading
solutions for our clients in London and around the world."


Not that Ebix seemed the least bit concerned at the time. Offering no sign that it even
sensed any danger, Ebix responded with the first in a string of encouraging updates about
its elusive PPL contract instead.


"There has been a lot of speculation on the size of the deal, the public
announcement, the timeline for the contract and the backing that the aggregation
exchange will receive in the London market," Ebix CEO Robin Raina stated in a
conference call hosted by the company more than nine months ago. "Let me confirm
that we are at very advanced states of contract finalization with PPL, while PPL is
working through the cost allocation with its 150-plus key market participants … While
we cannot reveal the size of the contract at present, let me just say that the five-year
contract is likely to have substantial guaranteed annual revenues associated with it
from inception, as the intent is to aggregate the London market on this exchange."


"We expect to make a public announcement on the details of the arrangement jointly
with PPL, once that contract is formally signed … The basic delay is not associated
with the contract finalization. (Indeed), I wouldn't even call it a delay" at all.


Disclosure: I/we have no positions in any stocks mentioned, and no plans to initiate any
positions within the next 72 hours.


I wrote this article myself, and it expresses my own opinions. I am not receiving
compensation for it. I have no business relationship with any company whose stock is
mentioned in this article.


 Like this article



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3139896-ebix-inc-taking-a-premature-bow-for-an-overhyped-business-deal
5/21/2018 Ebix: The Waiting Is The Hardest Part - Ebix Inc (NASDAQ:EBIX) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3899006-ebix-waiting-hardest-part 5/16


