5/21/2018 Oncothyreon: Phase III Unlikely to Show Survival Benefit - Cascadian Therapeutics, Inc (NYSE:CASC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/281421-oncothyreon-phase-iii-unlikely-to-show-survival-benefit 1/27


Oncothyreon: Phase III Unlikely to Show Survival Benefit
Jul. 25, 2011 10:20 AM ET111 comments
by: Martin Shkreli


Oncothyreon (NASDAQ: ONTY) has 40 million shares outstanding. At $10 per share,
ONTY’s market capitalization is $400 million. The company has $72 million in cash and $5
million in debt. The company’s main asset is an 8 – 12% royalty on a Merck KGAA
investigational drug called Stimuvax. Stimuvax is being tested in a large Phase III pivotal
clinical trial for lung cancer and the results of this study will be disclosed soon.
If the study reveals that Stimuvax fails to improve lung cancer survival, as I suspect it will,
Oncothyreon stock will drop 80% to cash value of $2 per share.     I believe there is a high
likelihood that the trial will be stopped for futility at the second interim analysis in a few
months. If not, the study will fail at the final analysis which should be about 9 months from
today. My hedge fund is short ONTY common stock and long various ONTY put options.


There are two smoking guns that support my case: first, Stimuvax is not a well-designed
drug and is likely to be inert in humans. The second is that the phase II data are not
suggestive of a benefit, and the phase III is highly unlikely to succeed. We will prove that
recent analyses speculating that the length of the trial is somehow predictive of Stimuvax
success are illegitimate and only serve to increase the risk/reward ratio for short sellers.


Mechanism of Action


Stimuvax is often referred to as a MUC1 “cancer vaccine”. The problem with this
terminology is Stimuvax is not a vaccine in any way, shape or form.   Vaccines typically
stimulate an immune response against an introduced antigen. This allows the immune
system to fight off this antigen in the future.


MUC1 is widely expressed in humans. Stimuvax is liposomal MUC1, so Stimuvax can’t be
a MUC1 vaccine because the immune system won’t know that MUC1 is an antigen to fight
off.
Without some leukopheresis/immune-training process, a-la Dendreon or a specialized
adjuvant, it is difficult to generate a vaccine to an endogenously found peptide. A MUC1
antibody or small molecule antagonist would make a lot more sense. Indeed, several
companies are attempting to improve the immune response for prospective MUC1
vaccines as well as attempting targeted payload strategies for MUC1. MUC1 is certainly a
5/21/2018 Oncothyreon: Phase III Unlikely to Show Survival Benefit - Cascadian Therapeutics, Inc (NYSE:CASC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/281421-oncothyreon-phase-iii-unlikely-to-show-survival-benefit 2/27


good marker for cancer, but it still isn’t useful. MUC1 tests are no longer used. MUC16,
which you may know better as CEA125, is widely used to determine ovarian cancer
staging and status. Antibodies, armed antibodies and vaccines to CEA125 went nowhere.


According to the NIH’s protein database, mucin 1 (MUC1) is a 1255 amino acid protein.
Stimuvax is the common repeat found in mucin 1. I wonder if the inventors assumed this
will serve as an antigen to the immune system and T cells will destroy any cell with mucin
1 expression. It doesn’t take a cell biologist to appreciate this is not a good idea given the
widespread expression of MUC1.


Furthermore, without legitimate immune response data and with no side effects, my
supposition that Stimuvax is inert is likely correct. The tandem repeat found in Stimuvax is
no different from native MUC1. While the glycosylation patterns may be different, it’s hard
to see MUC1 inducing a potent immune response. Indeed, the failure of the similar
MUC16 to generate a viable anticancer candidate bodes poorly for MUC1 and Stimuvax.


Getting back to the question of whether Stimuvax is an effective vaccine, we noticed that
only 21% of Stimuvax patients in the Phase IIB study had an immune response to
Stimuvax. Because the only way Stimuvax could have any anti-cancer effect would be
through immune recognition of the MUC1 tandem repeat, and a subsequent immune
response strong enough to destroy MUC1 expressing cells (a long shot), a 21% immune
response (forget evidence of a CR/PR) is not promising.


Most good vaccines have to have 100% immune responses or close to it. The immune
response data is uncontrolled and hazy at best. For a drug billed as a vaccine, Stimuvax
doesn’t do a great job of proving it is a vaccine. Even in a small n=22 trial that tested a
new formulation of Stimuvax, immune response results were not disclosed.


Statistical Considerations


Let’s move on to what everyone really cares about. ONTY has recently risen dramatically
because there is speculation that the START study will succeed. “START” is the Phase III
study Merck KGAA is conducting to determine if Stimuvax extends overall survival in lung
cancer. It is important for anyone trading ONTY to understand, that it is much more likely
any putative “extension” or “delay” in the combined overall survival of the START study, is
much more likely to be a result of rising survival expectations for this tumor type and a
miscalculated overall survival, than it is to be a miracle performance from Stimuvax.
5/21/2018 Oncothyreon: Phase III Unlikely to Show Survival Benefit - Cascadian Therapeutics, Inc (NYSE:CASC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/281421-oncothyreon-phase-iii-unlikely-to-show-survival-benefit 3/27


I’ve seen this movie before, and it never ends well. The long trade has a very poor
risk/reward characteristic and it is mathematically inept to assign a higher probability of
success to START because the combined median overall survival is higher than originally
expected. Unless you can perfectly estimate the control group overall survival of a new
study by looking back at literature, and taking into account the several new drugs
approved for this disease, you are making a mental assignment error of hoping you’ve
stumbled onto a free lunch when you’ve only found yourself in a game of speculative
musical chairs.


The enrollment curve that was released at ASCO has helped us determine that the
START trial is exactly on schedule. The control group should register a 33 month median
overall survival. We also think the Stimuvax arm will register a 33 month median overall
survival. This data is backed by recent clinical results (Kelly et al, Franca et al, Gadgeel et
al and Chang et al) as well as the recent innovations in lung cancer.


Again, nothing can be determined about the performance of the individual arms from the
data released thus far. We only have two data points from the trial: the enrollment curve,
and the timing of the first interim analysis. One can relatively easily impute that the
combined overall survival of the study is 33 months. It is tempting to look into the scientific
literature and see that there are some lung cancer studies with 25 months of overall
survival.


It is even more tempting to assume Stimuvax must be on track for 37 months of overall
survival given the 2:1 randomization of the study, or any other sizeable benefit. There’s a
lot of hand-waving that can be done here. Instead of retrofitting past data to speculate on
the potential clinical benefit of a drug in a new trial, investors are better served assuming
the null hypothesis that the combined median overall survival of the trial fairly represents
today’s standard of care and the investigational and control groups do not differ.


It is downright silly to assume the Stimuvax arm is outperforming the control arm without
any a priori evidence of this. As we’ll see later, the only basis for assuming Stimuvax
success is a single specious Phase II study. Stage III NSCLC is highly heterogeneous and
survival can be well in excess of the combined observed 33 months in START.


The recent advances include Avastin, Tarceva, Alimta and other drugs, as well as
improvements in radiation techniques and genetic sequencing of tumors altering treatment
paradigms render looking at past data to determine the likely performance of the control
group of START a waste of time. I posit that when all is said and done with START, the
5/21/2018 Oncothyreon: Phase III Unlikely to Show Survival Benefit - Cascadian Therapeutics, Inc (NYSE:CASC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/281421-oncothyreon-phase-iii-unlikely-to-show-survival-benefit 4/27


Kaplan-Meier curves of the two arms will be found to overlap. History tells us a cancer trial
taking longer than expected is not suggestive of a benefit. Recent examples of this include
Novelos, Genvec and Telik.


With respect to statistics, we used the publicly available data to simulate when the first
interim analysis and second interim analysis would take place in the START trial. Our work
can be found here. The trial is exactly on time. I think the drug is inert and there is a good
chance the trial will be stopped early for futility in the next few months. If not, the trial will
fail in the final analysis.
Buying ONTY is a bad idea, especially if you think the recent statistical analyses by
“biostatisticians” suggest a successful study. I recall fondly Northfield Laboratories where
we hired 10 separate biostatisticians (they’re cheap) to analyze that pivotal trial. These
folks are prone to biases and like stock-pickers, it’s hard to find good ones that are
impartial and thorough. We have learned enough about statistics in our collective
experience to dismiss the recent analyses as uninformed opinion to take advantage of.


Prior Stimuvax Data


The prior Stimuvax data is not encouraging. This data has serious flaws with a small n,
open-label nature and a large background imbalance that would have favored Stimuvax.
There is a rich history of positive phase 2 lung cancer trials failing to replicate in phase 3
(Affinitak, CPG7909, ASA404, figitumumab, Novelos and others). Subgroup analyses with
no rational basis are done to support Stimuvax efficacy. Even these subgroup analyses
don’t rise to the level of p<0.05.


Another subtle but important finding from the Phase II data is the separation of the
Kaplan-Meier curves after overlapping for 12 months. Most legitimate cancer drugs have
quick separation of K-M curve. This “late” effect can be ascribed to baseline
characteristics. Metastasis kills cancer patients. Stimuvax doesn’t seem to have an anti-
metastasis mechanism of action, but the data bears out its late effect. It’s much more likely
there was a baseline imbalance, and indeed there is substantial evidence for that.


Baseline imbalance in Phase II Stimuvax study explains Delta


Stimuvax Control


ECOG 0 35% 27%


ECOG 1 60% 68%


ECOG 2 5% 5%



http://www.msmbcapital.com/ONTYpublic.xls
5/21/2018 Oncothyreon: Phase III Unlikely to Show Survival Benefit - Cascadian Therapeutics, Inc (NYSE:CASC) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/281421-oncothyreon-phase-iii-unlikely-to-show-survival-benefit 5/27


