5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 1/44


The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short
Strategy Is About To Unwind
Sep. 28, 2015 11:26 AM ET170 comments
by: Xuhua Zhou


Summary


Despite confusing accounting metrics, Valeant is really a drug hedge fund.


Put in the spotlight, Michael Pearson, the godfather of drug price gouging, will have
to drop prices for the sake of basic human decency.


Pearson's riskless arbitrage of return on drug assets and VRX's cost of capital
wrecks havoc in the whole sector. Boom and bust will hurt innovation.


Public scrutiny on drug prices pressures asset returns, squeezes spreads.


Drop in Valeant's stock price and jump in bond yield will induce a death spiral.


Over the years, investors have likened Valeant (NYSE: VRX) to many things. Famed
short-seller Chanos called it a blackbox; prominent hedge fund manager Bill Ackman
called it the Berkshire Hathaway of biotech. But let's not kid ourselves. Charlie Munger
likened Valeant to a worse version of ITT and Howard Geneen. Meanwhile, Valeant is not
quite as mysterious as the fuzzy complex accounting methods would suggest. To truly
understand Valeant, investors need to look beyond the complex accounting or cash
earnings and zone in on the true economics of the business. Valeant is not a
pharmaceutical company; it is a $100 billion drug hedge fund with portfolio manager
Michael Pearson at the helm. Now let's redefine Valeant.


Business Description in My Opinion


Valeant acts like an offshore hedge fund, incorporated under the laws of the Province of
British Columbia. Its principal strategy consists of acquiring portfolios of drugs at attractive
prices while funding it with its advantageous balance sheet at a low cost of capital.
Subsequent economic value is realized by taking advantage of our pricing power in such
acquired drug portfolios and realize superior returns relative to our blended cost of capital.
In other words, Valeant primarily specializes in what is commonly known as a carry trade
arbitrage by exploiting the differential between our own blended cost of capital and
our anticipated drug price inflation. Portfolio manager Michael Pearson has over 23
years of experience consulting with major pharmaceutical companies such as Merck



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VRX

http://www.fool.ca/2015/04/02/why-is-warren-buffetts-right-hand-man-so-bearish-on-valeant-pharmaceuticals-intl-inc/
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 2/44


(NYSE:MRK) and Teva (NYSE:TEVA), identifying drug products that command pricing
power in the marketplace. We believe certain drug portfolios embedded within the existing
healthcare companies are significantly undervalued due to their low prices.


What is Valeant?


Valeant's business strategy has been polarizing. The world's best investors have split
views on the prospects of the company. It isn't hard to see why. Valeant has long been
billed as an atypical pharmaceutical company with its repeatedly stated strategy of cutting
R&D investments. The value creation process at Valeant has always seemed like a bit of a
myth. While Valeant invests an inconsequential percentage of capital in R&D, it somehow
manages to acquire a number of drug companies at often significant premiums to market
yet still builds staggering equity value in the process. Efficient market hypothesis would
suggest that public investors have efficiently weighed the risk and prospect of every
company Valeant has acquired and in the said process have already assigned a fair price
to those companies. While it might be possible to generate some abnormal returns
through intelligence, large-scale arbitrage is generally considered to be hard, if not next to
impossible. That makes Valeant's success even more curious as the company pays a
price often far above what the public market prices would dictate. In the case of its latest
acquisition, it paid over 48% premium to acquire Salix (NASDAQ:SLXP). Despite such
massive premium, Valeant's current enterprise value is a staggering $75 billion higher
than the sum of its total acquisition costs. How is this possible?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/MRK

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/TEVA

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/SLXP

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/9/26/6756741-14432735291730928-Xuhua-Zhou_origin.png
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 3/44


The answer is in fact fairly simple. Critics of Valeant often hold disbelief over Valeant's
organic growth, i.e. the improvement in performance of drug products it acquired in the
past. The popular short thesis on Valeant is that its core legacy products cannot hold up in
performance and have to rely on continued acquisition to mask the declining performance
of the products it acquired in the past. I do not share a similar view. Valeant is not a typical
roll-up and does not suffer from many of the same issues traditional roll-ups often do. The
drug portfolio Valeant acquired in the past differ significantly from assets acquired in
traditional roll-ups in one significant way - pricing. Valeant recognizes that demand for
drugs is often very price inelastic and the existing system allows the drug company to
have complete control over pricing. While the cost synergy does not amount to much,
especially given the above-market premium it often pays for its drug portfolio, the revenue
synergy is often huge and Valeant is able to realize such synergy by simply rolling out
price increases. To enhance returns, Valeant deploys significant leverage to lower its
blended cost of capital.


Trade of the Decade - A Drug Carry Trade


The real economics of Valeant's business model are truly quite simple and are almost no
different from a carry trade many hedge funds commonly employ.


A carry trade is a strategy in which an investor borrows money at a low interest rate in
order to invest in an asset that is likely to provide a higher return. This strategy is very
common in the foreign exchange market.


In the case of Valeant, it is a drug carry trade. The strategy involves Valeant borrowing
money at its own blended cost of capital to invest in drug assets that will likely provide
higher returns due to future expected price inflation. The drug carry trade is really an
ingenious idea because Valeant can essentially function as its own central bank, dictating
returns on its invested assets, drugs, by setting its own drug prices. It is a "heads I win, tail
I don't lose" investment and allows PM Michael Pearson to comfortably take on significant
leverage to drive home one of the greatest trade since subprime, that is until Martin
Shkreli pooped the party.


Short Valeant, Short More as It Goes Lower as It is Destined to Fail


Sophisticated investors should be most familiar with the unwinding of a carry trade. It is
often one of the most nasty experiences for investors that are caught on the wrong side of
the trade. The reason for a crowded carry trade unwind is simple. For whatever reason,
should the spread between expected asset return and cost of capital narrow, or gears into



http://www.hobsonprior.com/news/After-Turing,-the-industry%92s-biggest-price-gougers-6510.html?currentpage=0
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 4/44


negative, a carry trade unwinds. In the case of Valeant, investors need to pay attention to
two metrics: expected return on its drug portfolio and Valeant's own blended cost of
capital.


Expected Drug Portfolio Return 2013-Present


As discussed previously, Valeant's expected drug portfolio return is primarily derived from
its ability to dictate prices. Let's roughly equate the expected drug portfolio return to
expected drug price inflation. Since 2013, Valeant has been on an extremely virtuous
cycle of drug price hikes. Many branded drug products in its portfolio experienced
significant price hikes despite having made little modification to the product to enhance its
quality. As a result, investors have lifted up significantly the expected drug price inflation
and that directly translates into a jump in the expected return of Valeant's drug portfolio.


Expected Drug Portfolio Return Present-Future


A party pooper entered the ring. Welcome, Martin Shkreli, the most hated pharma boy in
America. Mr. Shkreli's unscrupulous, greedy move of jacking up a life-saving drug by
5,000% sparked an outrage. While many sell-side analysts have dissed the likelihood of
complete pricing regulation in the pharma industry, they often overlooked the powerful
impact of public scrutiny. A congressional investigation has so far only picked out two
drugs in Valeant's portfolio, but the senators probably had little idea that Valeant has
quietly raised prices significantly on well over 30 drugs since they were acquired. Public
scrutiny and outrage from price gouging could completely upend Valeant's business model
or even put it out of business. Hence, Michael Pearson will have little choice but to slow or
even halt the price hikes he had planned to deploy; the potential to roll back certain
already implemented price hikes should not be discounted as Shkreli balked under public
outrage. The trend has completely turned and the Bank of Pearson is losing its ability to
dictate prices and set his own returns. The current expected return on Valeant's asset
portfolio seems far misplaced as future realized portfolio return will likely be substantially
lower.


Valeant's Blended Cost of Capital 2013 - Now


Valeant's biggest vulnerability is not necessarily in the return of its own product portfolio;
rather, Valeant's biggest vulnerability is the ebb and flow of its own blended cost of capital.
As Valeant succeeds in convincing investors it can produce returns on the drug portfolio it
acquired, Valeant's own stock price experienced an astounding 800% jump over the
course of a mere few years. Easy capital market conditions and hunger for yield allowed
Valeant to borrow cheaply. Both factors contributed to a significant decrease in Valeant's
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 5/44


blended cost of capital since 2013. Such significant drop in Valeant's blended cost of
capital can prove to be a curse later on, as it drops the required rate of return on assets it
acquires by paying ever higher prices while not fully account for the volatile condition of
the marketplace and the unexpected unforeseeable issues in realizing those returns.


Valeant's Blended Cost of Capital Now-Future


As discussed earlier, Valeant's own cost of capital is a function of two things. It's borrow
cost and its stock price. Upon news of the Clinton announcement, Valeant's CDS
experienced a significant move over the course of a mere three days, demonstrating credit
investors' concern on a shift of the expected return of its drug portfolio. Valeant's stock
price also tumbled almost 20% over the course of a few days. Both directly result in a
substantially higher blended cost of capital for Valeant. More importantly, as the equity
value of a carry trade really derives from the differential in spread, downward revision of
expected drug portfolio returns and upward revision of its blended cost of capital destroy
equity value further and drive up the blended cost of capital even more. The direct result
of which is what is commonly referred to as a death spiral in the stock. And the lower the
stock price goes, the lower the stock price goes.


Valeant's 10-year CDS have already jumped over 100 basis points in the past three
months, including an 80 basis point surge since the Martin Shkreli news came to light.


(Source: Bloomberg)



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/9/28/6756741-14434332112374392-Xuhua-Zhou_origin.png
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 6/44


Fundamentally speaking, every business accrues equity by making a spread between its
return on assets and its blended cost of capital. How is Valeant different? The key
difference in Valeant is that the company's return on asset has become deterministic, or
riskless. Pearson figured out that he could abuse the healthcare system by arbitrarily
dictating drug pricing and, therefore, determining the return on its asset portfolio. Such
riskless return opportunity is supported by the broader U.S. healthcare system and
millions of taxpayers and insured. By making the asset portfolio riskless yet earning much
higher return than a risk-free return, Valeant's business model flies in the face of basic
economics - riskless asset should only be able to earn riskless returns. From the very
beginning of Valeant's roll-up strategy, Valeant's fate has been sealed. It is destined to fail.


A Bubble Burst to Starve Capital for Innovation


Folks have been calling a biotech bubble for two years now. The sector bubble really
started with Valeant making drug assets riskless while earning a substantially higher return
than the risk-free rate. Other market participants quickly caught on by snapping up other
drug assets from people who did not understand the newly invented risk-return profile of
drug assets. Over the course of two years, industry insiders and investors have largely
caught on the nature of the gambit. Instead of taking risks in R&D to generate returns,
capital has increasingly been flocking into existing drugs by bidding up their prices as
evidenced by Martin Shkreli's staggering $55 million purchase of the effective but
inexpensive Daraprim. Martin Shkreli knows he cannot sell the drug at the existing price to
make a return; the seller Impax Labs knows that as well. The ensuing story is simply
inevitable. Had it not been Martin Shkreli, another person would have popped up.


A bubble in the Biotech index (NYSE: IBB) will inevitably burst. The earlier it goes bust,
the earlier we can return to an industry norm where excess return is made by risking
capital. Valeant, the godfather, has to go away for the sake of everyone's health and
longevity. The sad part is such a bubble burst will burn so many innocent and
unsuspecting biotech investors and further damage risk capital used in R&D. Our life
expectancy will probably all be a few months or years shorter than what it would have
been if it weren't for all the greed involved in making a profit.


Crowded Carry Trade Unwind, Get Out and Go Short


It would appear the Valeant fund is at the very onset of an LTCM type of situation. Having
entered into a massively leveraged carry trade in the drug business, Valeant's ability to
dictate drug prices is now in doubt. For the sake of basic human decency, Michael
Pearson should and will need to lower drug prices and roll back the magnificent price



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/IBB
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 7/44


hikes he has done over the course of the past two years. As its stock price starts to move
lower, its blended cost of capital will skyrocket further, pushing the spread into negative
territory given the expensive recent acquisitions. Negative spread further destroys equity
value and pushes up cost of capital. The loop goes on and stock goes down. Question is,
who will be holding the bag?


For the Sake of Basic Human Decency, Rollback Your Price Hikes, J. Michael
Pearson!


There is no other way to put it; price gouging life-saving drugs is despicable. The U.S.
healthcare system largely guarantees individual access but higher drug costs are
eventually absorbed by the entire system and the additional burden is shared by all
corners of the society. While individuals no longer suffer due to price gouging, the system
overall is being slowly suffocated by Valeant's actions. Since Mr. Pearson started
spearheading the strategy of overpaying for drug portfolio then hiking the prices on drugs
even more, Valeant became an overnight success. Such success invites copycats and
copycats of copycats. Valeant, in many ways, is like a malignant tumor that is rapidly
growing in the pharmaceutical industry and has already infected many healthy tissues in
the system. If left untreated, the entire pharmaceutical industry will soon become a
research-light and price-hiking one. Without investment in R&D with a long-term horizon,
the society as a whole will suffer. I obtained pricing information from a pharmacy
consultant on a few drugs that are in Valeant's drug portfolio and the price hikes are
infuriating.


J. Michael Pearson, for the sake of human decency, drug price hikes such as the one
detailed below are simply unacceptable and will have to be rolled back. Mephyton has
been owned by Valeant since its Aton Pharma acquisition in 2010.



https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/9/26/6756741-14432712883600273-Xuhua-Zhou_origin.png
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 8/44


Mr. Pearson should also think three times before jacking up prices on an overpaid drug
portfolio he acquired from Salix and roll back the egregious price hikes that have occurred
already since April 1st. Valeant took over Salix in April and the drug pricing pattern
detailed below shows Valeant's strategy in a crystal clear fashion. The U.S. healthcare
system should not pay six times for the identical Glumetza simply because Valeant owned
the drug. Valeant's shareholders are no more deserving than Salix's shareholders and
jacking up prices like this is egregious price gouging.


Glumetza is a once-daily formulation of Metformin, a very inexpensive, first-line treatment
for diabetes, but there is no once daily competitor


GLUMETZA 1000MG 90 TAB/BOTTLE


9/25/2012$793.67


9/19/13$926.38


6/9/14$1067.10


6/23/15$6395.91


8/13/15$9593.86


A single patient taking 2 tabs daily (the recommended dose) would expect to use approx.
$80,000 per year of product otherwise available for about $50 as generic Metformin 1000
mg tabs with no change in clinical outcome.


Further, on Xifaxan, please be mindful that everyone will be watching the company. The
price has already gone up 10% since Valeant became the new owner. What is the plan?


To the Bulls and Longs


I hold a short position in Valeant fully understanding the bull side of the argument, and
here is why the 12x EPS specialty pharma platform value investing approach will fail you
miserably.


What the bulls believe:
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 9/44


1. Political landscape dictates current abusive system will stay in place and Valeant will
continue to have the ability to maintain and hike prices of its drug portfolio.


2. Worst case scenario, public scrutiny will cause Valeant to lose its ability to rapidly raise
prices in the near term but the already hiked prices will stay in place


3. Drug costs have largely stayed stable as at 10% of overall healthcare costs and,
therefore, it will not draw undue attention


4. Even without any additional price hikes, Valeant currently trades at 12x ex-special-item
EPS. It is somewhat of a value stock.


The above-mentioned beliefs will hold no water once the public collectively understands
the abuse Valeant has committed to the system. The politicians may split along the party
line on how to cure the abuse; no politician will find such rampant drug price gouging
acceptable. While it might be hard to develop and agree upon a truly effective system to
balance innovation, return on capital and affordability, Valeant will go away. To argue for
Valeant is to argue against the betterment of the human race.


Valeant will be at risk to roll back the price hikes it has deployed thus far not only because
it is the godfather of drug price gouging who started it all, but also because it has the least
defensible business model. The publicly stated strategy of no investment in long-term
R&D will render all the past price hikes completely indefensible in the spotlight. However
flimsy Martin Shkreli's argument of drug improvement might be, we cannot definitively rule
out such possibility. Valeant, on the other hand, has a publicly stated corporate strategy of
not investing in R&D. It is a major difference.


While overall drug cost as a percentage of healthcare cost has been stable over the past
several years. The beneficiary of such cost inflation is completely different. Cost inflation
at hospitals are distributed to other stakeholders such as employees and create jobs for
the U.S. Even for the traditional pharmaceutical companies, rising prices provided them
with capital to invest in R&D. Valeant is an oddball. The additional value almost went
exclusively to an offshore entity in British Columbia and subsequently directly accrued to
billionaire hedge fund managers and billionaire CEO. Nobody will view this matter lightly,
especially in an election season.


Thus far, I have raised zero question about Valeant's accounting, the reliability of its
reported organic growth and ex-item EPS. Given the moral compass of the company,
investors should not discount things that might be hidden under the hood. Investors
should also take notice of Valeant's long-time CFO Howard Schiller's departure. If
5/23/2018 The Drug Carry Trade: Valeant's Massively Leveraged Long-Short Strategy Is About To Unwind - Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, I…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3536686-drug-carry-trade-valeants-massively-leveraged-long-short-strategy-unwind 10/44


