5/19/2018 Bronte Capital: Universal Travel Group: auditor resigns edition.


http://brontecapital.blogspot.com/2011/04/universal-travel-group-auditor-resigns.html 1/4


The sometimes eccentric views of John Hempton


Bronte Capital


Friday, April 15, 2011


Posted by John Hempton at 5:51 PM  


Universal Travel Group: auditor resigns edition.
Universal Travel Group has lost its auditor - a small firm Windes and McClaughrey.  Windes looks
 reputable - a cursory look through the SEC database as to companies they have audited turns up
nothing untoward.  
 
So I was surprised when they accepted the audit assignment.  After all my views about Universal
Travel are well known.  I even asked how we would test whether the $43 million stated cash balance
at NYSE:UTA was really there.  
 
The auditor asked the same question.  Here is the key section from the auditor-departs 8K filing. 


The following reportable disagreements occurred within the period from Windes'
engagement through the date of its resignation, which if not resolved to the satisfaction
of Windes, would have caused it to make a reference to the subject matter of the
disagreements in connection with its report. 


Windes had informed the Company in its resignation letter that it was no longer able to
complete the audit process. Windes stated this was due in part to Management and/or
the Audit Committee being non-responsive, unwilling or reluctant to proceed in
good faith and imposing scope limitations on Windes' audit procedures.  


Windes also stated that Windes had lost confidence in the Board of Directors' and the
Audit Committee's commitment to sound corporate governance and reliable financial
reporting. 
Prior to its resignation, Windes raised the following issues (some of which may be
considered to be disagreements) encountered during the audit, including issues related
to the authenticity of confirmations, a loss of confidence in confirmation procedures
carried out under circumstances which Windes believed to be suspicious; issues
concerning the lack of evidence of certain tour package contracts and related cash
payments.


So the auditor wanted to check balances (presumably though I am guessing - cash balances) and
considered the procedures the company wanted to use to confirm the balances "suspicious".
 Moreover management were unwilling or reluctant to proceed in good faith and imposed limits on
what Windes can do. 
 
Universal Travel is going through the circus of finding another auditor - their sixth.  You could see
through this company from a couch in Bronte or from a desk at the NYSE or any  SEC office.
 Everything that I did to demonstrate problems with this company could be done without visiting China
- and yet the stock was never suspended, kicked to the Pink Sheets or anything else.  Nah - the
NYSE kept collecting listing fees. 
 
The NYSE it seems has no concern for its reputation. 
 
It is not as bad as Singapore (where prospectuses for fraudulent Chinese companies were handed
out in shopping centers) but hey - what is this - a race to the bottom? 
 
 
 
John


