5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 1/5


What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The
Entire LS ECM Space
Dec. 11, 2013 10:54 AM ET10 comments
by: Suhail Capital


"Of all the offspring of Time, Error is the most ancient, and is so old and familiar an
acquaintance, that Truth, when discovered, comes upon most of us like an intruder, and
meets the intruder's welcome."-Charles Mackay


And here we thought we would get some time off on this one.....


Monday after the close, Accelrys (NASDAQ:ACCL), a global leader in scientific innovation
lifecycle management software, announced that it was acquiring Ireland-based Qumas, a
leading compliance and quality management solutions provider for the life sciences
industry. This news caught our attention because Qumas' name came up more than a few
times in our deep dive into life sciences enterprise content management. Behind EMC,
CSC and Opentext it was one of three pure life sciences focused document management
systems providers(the other two being NextDocs and Mastercontrol) that we looked into.
This is about as good of a comp as you could ask for Veeva Systems' (NYSE:VEEV)
Vault, and now that Accelrys has acquired them everyone can freely reach their own
conclusions about valuations in this space.


The deal terms were $50 million in cash or exactly 2.5x Qumas' 2012 revenues. Think
about that for a second. This is a company with over 270 deployments in the life sciences
space, and they just sold to another leading life sciences player for 2.5x sales. Veeva is
involved in about 50 deployments and recognized Vault revenue in 2012 of around
$1.5-$2ml. If over the next few years they get to Qumas' revenue run rate in Vault, what's
the market value of that business? $50 ml, $100mln?


Now consider that based on our analysis the market is valuing Vault at between $2-$3
billion. Basically, you are paying anywhere between 1000x-2000x 2012 revenue for this
business today. Did the Qumas' shareholders just leave a few billion dollars or 98% of the
pie on the table? Is Accelrys now worth quintuple what it was trading at before this
acquisition?


You get our point yet?



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/ACCL

http://finance.yahoo.com/news/accelrys-acquires-compliance-quality-management-210500600.html

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/VEEV
5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 2/5


The consensus view out there is that MDM of customer data in life sciences is a small
addressable market. There is no doubt about that. If Veeva were to completely own this
market (and remember they just entered it), it is probably worth max $400 million in
market cap. That leaves CRM for which we'd say an EV/Sales ratio of 8x is extremely
generous (we'd be at 5x here) considering their penetration. Run that against Q3 revenues
annualized and you get $1.7 billion. That basically leaves $3.7 billion in EV for Vault. For a
tiny fraction of that amount you could buy all the niche focused LS ECM companies that
are highly regarded in the space. In fact, with $1 billion worth of Veeva's Bitcoinesque
currency, you could acquire Cegedim's entire CRM/SD division ($657mil 2012 rev), all of
Accelrys/Qumas ($182ml 2012 rev), Nextdocs (Sharepoint based LS ECM), Reltio (small
LS focused MDM), and still have some spare change. At which point you are a $1 billion+
revenue company with 70%+ share in LS CRM, the top global HCP database provider, a
pure MDM solution provider, a leader in scientific lifecycle management, and a diverse
portfolio LS ECM solution provider. That's just crazy, and goes to show that our research
into this space was spot on.


LS ECM is nothing like LS CRM. It is a much more fragmented and extremely competitive
market. Things move at a snail's pace because you are dealing with very regulated
processes. The sales cycle are long even for small deals which is basically the polar
opposite of what Veeva has dealt with in SFA in displacing Siebel over the last 18 months.
Basically, regardless of what you think of the Vault offering, this is NOT a segment suited
for those selling a high growth/high multiple story. NextDocs has done nothing but
exclusively focus on this niche and it still took them 5 years to get to $15 million in
revenue. Qumas has been around for a while and is very well regarded by everybody in
LS ECM, and yet still did a hair under $20 million in revenue last year. And let's not forget
about Documentum. These guys are a beast in life sciences, and clearly not content to sit
on their hands like a Siebel in CRM. In the last year, EMC IIG (Documentum) purchased
Trinity Technologies and Sitrof Technologies. The former is an energy sector-focused ECM
consulting firm while the latter is a Life Sciences-focused firm. Basically, EMC IIG has
decided they are going to inhouse the expertise in highly technical industries they serve to
improve their service offerings. If the leader in the space found it necessary to acquire 50
highly technical consultants with pure LS ECM expertise, what should that tell you about
their commitment to the sector and the direction they want to take their clients? Not that
EMC IIG needs to be thinking this way as there are plenty of customers who won't even
consider switching because the compliance risk is just too high. Still, no matter what you
think about the space, EMC clearly isn't planning on just sitting back and playing defense.
Then you got to ask yourself about the Accelrys/Qumas merger. You now have a fully
integrated vertically focused play on the process/reg side of things to compete with. What
5/23/2018 What Accelrys' Qumas Acquisition Says About Veeva Vault And The Entire LS ECM Space - Veeva Systems Inc. (NYSE:VEEV) | Seekin…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/1891841-what-accelrys-qumas-acquisition-says-about-veeva-vault-and-the-entire-ls-ecm-space 3/5


