5/23/2018 Thoughts On The Unexpected Resignation Of Lumber Liquidators' CEO - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3203026-thoughts-on-the-unexpected-resignation-of-lumber-liquidators-ceo 1/58


Thoughts On The Unexpected Resignation Of Lumber Liquidators'
CEO
May 21, 2015 12:46 PM ET184 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


I was shocked by this announcement because it undermines all of the company’s
denials.


It is powerful evidence that what I’ve been saying all along is true: Lumber
Liquidators has been knowingly poisoning its customers with toxic, formaldehyde-
drenched laminate flooring and, in general, is a notorious bad actor.


It likely means that Lumber Liquidators is under immense pressure from regulators,
who will, I expect, take decisive action to rein in and punish this rogue company.


If Lumber Liquidators wants to start behaving like an honest and reputable company,
it needs to take a number of steps.


I’m not adding to my short position at this price, but I'm very comfortable keeping it
as my largest short.


The announcement this morning that Robert Lynch is resigning as Lumber Liquidators'
(NYSE:LL) President, CEO and board member was not only a surprise to the company,
but to me as well. In fact, in light of the company's circle-the-wagons, deny-and-attack
approach since the 60 Minutes story aired on March 1st, I'm shocked by this
announcement because it undermines all of the company's denials since the 60 Minutes
story aired.


If Lumber Liquidators was a good company with no formaldehyde problem - or was the
innocent victim of nefarious Chinese suppliers - Lynch never would have resigned.


The fact that he did - and did so "unexpectedly" - is powerful evidence that the three main
things I've been saying all along are undoubtedly true:


1) Lumber Liquidators, until only two weeks ago when it finally suspended sales of its
Chinese-made laminate flooring, was for years selling American families hundreds of
millions of square feet of this product, which contained high levels of formaldehyde, a
dangerous chemical and known carcinogen, and thus endangered the health and safety of
its customers, especially children.



https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations/
5/23/2018 Thoughts On The Unexpected Resignation Of Lumber Liquidators' CEO - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3203026-thoughts-on-the-unexpected-resignation-of-lumber-liquidators-ceo 2/58


2) Lumber Liquidators' senior executives knowingly did this in order to save ~10% on
sourcing costs. Why would they do something so immoral and potentially destructive? The
oldest reason in the universe: greed. Laminate is one of the company's most profitable
product lines and non-CARB-compliant laminate is ~10% cheaper, so the company saved
a lot of money on sourcing costs (not a few pennies, as founder, Chairman and new CEO
Tom Sullivan claims), which I think was a major contributor to a quick doubling of margins,
which in turn helped send the stock price up eight times from $15 to $119 in less than two
years. Sullivan and Lynch recognized a golden opportunity when they saw it, dumping $37
million worth of stock at prices more than triple today's level in early- to mid- 2013; and


3) Lumber Liquidators is a notorious bad actor: cutting corners at every opportunity, selling
very low-quality products, treating customers, vendors, installers and employees badly,
and, most damningly, not being serious about compliance.


(A pdf of the 16 articles I've written on Lumber Liquidators since the 60 Minutes story aired
- with a table of contents - is posted here.)


Other Implications


There are a number of other possible implications of Lynch's sudden departure:


1) It likely means that Lumber Liquidators is under immense pressure from regulators,
who will, I expect, take decisive action to rein in and punish this rogue company.


2) I think Lumber Liquidators' board members are finally waking up to what really
happened, are rightly panicked about the implications, both for the company and their own
personal liability, and are seizing control of the situation. Thus, Lynch was likely under
immense pressure from the board, saw the writing on the wall, and decided to jump before
being pushed. As I wrote in my article two weeks ago, The Market Is Misunderstanding
Lumber Liquidators' Announcement, in response to the company's decision to halt sales of
its Chinese-made laminate: "One source tells me that the decision to halt sales was made
by the board, over management's objections, which, if true, means that perhaps they kept
the board in the dark about their nefarious actions."


3) Reflective of the change in who's running the show is the company's new "Commitment
to Quality & Safety" web page, replacing the one it posted shortly after the 60 Minutes
story aired.


The old one made the laughable claim that "all of our products are 100% safe," had videos
featuring both Sullivan and Ray Cotton, Lumber Liquidators' Senior Vice President, Chief
Compliance and Sustainability Officer, impressive-looking charts that purported to show



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLTilsonarticles.pdf

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Thoughts On The Unexpected Resignation Of Lumber Liquidators' CEO - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3203026-thoughts-on-the-unexpected-resignation-of-lumber-liquidators-ceo 3/58


that its laminate had safe levels of formaldehyde (which I rebutted in this article), and laid
the blame for its problems at the feet of short sellers like me:


These attacks are driven by a small group of short-selling investors who are working
together for the sole purpose of making money by lowering our stock price. They are
using any means to try and scare our customers with inaccurate allegations. Their
motives and methods are wrong and we will fight these false attacks on all fronts.


The new web site makes no claim that Lumber Liquidators' laminate is safe or compliant,
has a slick, new, feel-good video with no company employees in it, and doesn't mention
short sellers. Instead, it has pretty pictures and this generic, carefully-crafted statement
that says nothing (with a cute new logo):


Our Commitment to Quality & Safety


Offering value means more than saving our customers money, that's why Lumber
Liquidators is committed to providing high quality, durable, safe products.


For more than 20 years, Lumber Liquidators has delivered on that promise by
making beautiful, high quality hardwood flooring affordable for everyone.


Your life is lived on our floors, and we take that to heart. We go the extra mile for
your safety and satisfaction. That's why we use quality and compliance processes
designed to ensure we meet applicable regulations and our stringent quality
standards.


4) I doubt that Lumber Liquidators was ever a corporate exemplar, but I'm not sure that it
was always a notorious bad actor. I've heard from numerous people that when Lynch
became CEO at the beginning of 2012, the company's sourcing and compliance
procedures as well as how it treated vendors and installers got much worse - all part of an
effort to increase margins, profitability and, of course, the stock price in the short term,
long-term consequences be damned. If Lynch was, in fact, a major source of the rot in the



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4xlda1JquPo&feature=youtu.be

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/5/21/saupload_ll2.png
5/23/2018 Thoughts On The Unexpected Resignation Of Lumber Liquidators' CEO - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3203026-thoughts-on-the-unexpected-resignation-of-lumber-liquidators-ceo 4/58


company, then his departure is good news for Lumber Liquidators and everyone who
interacts with it, most importantly customers. If the few remaining bulls on this stock are
looking for a silver lining to today's news, this is it.


Next Steps


Since the 60 Minutes story aired, Lumber Liquidators has consistently done the wrong
thing at every turn. If it wants to break this dismal streak and start behaving like an honest
and reputable company, it needs to take a number of steps:


1) Offer a full refund to any customers who want to return Chinese-made laminate that's
already been delivered but not yet been installed.


2) Cease the bogus formaldehyde testing program that it's currently offering customers
(see my article, Lumber Liquidators' Offer to Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears to Be a
Sham), and instead offer to send a trained specialist with sophisticated equipment to do a
proper test.


3) Rather than waiting for inbound calls and complaints, Lumber Liquidators should send a
letter to every customer who has purchased its Chinese-made laminate flooring in the
past, say, five years, informing them that the product may be emitting dangerous levels of
formaldehyde and offering a proper test.


4) For any customers with a reading above 0.016 parts per million (16 ppb), the standard
set by both FEMA and NIOSH (I'm being generous - 7 ppb is the limit set by the California
Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment; for more on this, see my article, More
On Lumber Liquidators And Formaldehyde), offer to pay all costs for them, if they wish, to
temporarily move out of their home until the flooring can be removed and replaced with
safe flooring, at Lumber Liquidators' cost (even if the customer chooses carpeting or wood
flooring bought from another company). Also, for these customers, offer to pay all medical
bills for anyone in the home suffering symptoms consistent with formaldehyde exposure;
and


5) Fire Ray Cotton, who, as I showed in this article, is not a serious person and, not
surprisingly, has failed miserably in his job as head of compliance at Lumber Liquidators.


Conclusion


As I disclosed in previous articles (here and here), I've added to my Lumber Liquidators
short position twice since the 60 Minutes story aired because further evidence emerged
that my short thesis was correct, the company continued to pursue a reckless and truly



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3072996-more-on-lumber-liquidators-and-formaldehyde

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2980746-why-i-significantly-increased-my-lumber-liquidators-short-position-in-the-last-two-days

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3154666-the-market-is-misunderstanding-lumber-liquidators-announcement
5/23/2018 Thoughts On The Unexpected Resignation Of Lumber Liquidators' CEO - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeking Alpha


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3203026-thoughts-on-the-unexpected-resignation-of-lumber-liquidators-ceo 5/58


insane deny-and-attack strategy, and the stock remained significantly overvalued.


Today, the story is now more mixed. While I'm even more certain that my investment
thesis is correct, the company has finally done what it should have done long ago:
suspended sales of its Chinese-made laminate and engineered the departure of Rob
Lynch. And, of course, the stock is much lower, hitting a 3+ year low this morning.


Thus, I'm not inclined to add to my short position at this price, especially since, even after
today's decline, it's still my largest at ~3%.


But I'm not inclined to cover and take some profits either, for two reasons:


1) I see nothing but bad news emerging for the company over the short-, intermediate-
and long-term horizons. In particular, I think regulators (most likely the California Air
Resources Board and the Consumer Product Safety Commission) will announce that their
tests of Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate are consistent with the test results
commissioned by 60 Minutes, myself and others; that, consequently, they will take strong
action against the company (perhaps requiring some of the steps that I outline above);
and that the legal liabilities will be enormous, especially once hard evidence emerges that
the company was knowingly poisoning its own customers; and


