5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 1/44


Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To
Be A Sham
Apr. 20, 2015 10:08 AM ET113 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


Two lawsuits filed recently make it clear that Lumber Liquidators’ offer to do indoor
air quality testing is a sham.


An expert testified that Lumber Liquidators’ testing program is “the cheapest
possible way to test,” “cannot be considered valid” and “will likely provide some
consumers with poor data that give them a false sense of security.”.


The lab Lumber Liquidators hired has numerous conflicts of interest.


The methodology used to collect the air samples is highly unreliable and unscientific
and is likely to significantly understate the true level of formaldehyde in the air.


Test results for four customers show troubling levels of formaldehyde, yet the lab told
Lumber Liquidators’ customers not to worry, citing a guideline that only assumes “30-
minute average concentration.”.


Even when customers, at their own expense, hired independent, qualified
technicians to measure the formaldehyde in their homes, Lumber Liquidators was
dismissive of the findings.


Lumber Liquidators needs to immediately cease its current testing program and
instead offer its customers a genuinely professional one that would give
homeowners information they could rely upon.


Of course, there is no chance that Lumber Liquidators will do this voluntarily, but I’m
optimistic that a judge or regulator will soon compel Lumber Liquidators to do the
right thing, which will be bad news for the stock for a number of reasons.


Note: The original version of this article, based on the Robertson lawsuit, said that "EDLab
is only certified to test for mold, not formaldehyde, and there is no evidence for Lumber
Liquidators' claim that EDLab is using other, unidentified 'properly accredited
laboratories'." Subsequently, Pure Air Control Services issued this press release, which
says, in part:



http://pureaircontrols.com/statement-by-pure-air-control-services-on-formaldehyde-test-kits/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 2/44


To analyze our formaldehyde test kits, we work with our partner labs, each of which
is accredited by the American Industrial Hygiene Association for formaldehyde
analysis - the Industrial Hygiene Laboratory Accreditation Program (IHLAP). In
accordance with that accreditation, all original analytical data is developed and
maintained by those labs as per the policy.


Based on this, the article has been revised to remove the parts that questioned EDLab's
accreditation to test for formaldehyde.


Since the 60 Minutes story aired on March 1st, Lumber Liquidators (NYSE:LL) hasn't
taken many basic, obvious steps that I think any honest and reputable company would,
including:


a) Stop selling the Chinese-made laminate flooring in question (even if it doubted the
validity of the testing 60 Minutes did, why take any chances with customers' health
and the company's reputation, not to mention future liabilities?);


b) Offer a full refund to any customers who wanted to return unopened product;


c) Set up a Special Committee of the board, made up of independent directors, to
oversee a full investigation, likely led by an experienced law firm; and


d) Hire an independent firm to do a wide range of testing, not just of Chinese-made
laminate, but all of the company's products.


This isn't rocket science - it's Crisis Management 101. Yet Lumber Liquidators hasn't done
a single one of these things.


However, at least at first glance, Lumber Liquidators does appear to have done one thing
that an honest and reputable company would: offer a free formaldehyde test to concerned
customers. Here's what the company says on its web site:



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations

https://seekingalpha.com/symbol/LL

http://t.lumberliquidators.com/sustainability/health-and-safety/
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 3/44


Air Quality Test Kit


To reassure our customers, we are providing indoor air quality testing at no cost to
qualifying customers as the fastest, most effective way to measure the total level of
formaldehyde in the home. The testing is being administered and the results
produced by an independent, accredited lab. The customer is in control of the
process, with clear instructions on the test and its results. We will conduct an in-
depth evaluation of air quality and potential formaldehyde sources for any customer
whose results are inconclusive or above established thresholds. Our customer care
team will work with our valued customers throughout the process.


The home test kits are being provided as a step for customers with our laminate
floors to help reassure them that their floor as installed is safe. Please fill out the
form found at the link below to determine if your floor qualifies for the free test kit. If
your floor does qualify, you will be walked through the process of ordering the test
via an independent lab.


Lumber Liquidators' customers are taking the company up on this offer in droves: on April
2nd, it reported that about 10,000 customers had requested air quality test kits. (Click here
to see what customers receive and here to see the typo-ridden web page the lab set up to
answer frequently asked questions.)


This all sounds great so, at least in this way, Lumber Liquidators is doing the right thing,
right? Not so fast… Two recent lawsuits (click here and here) filed by Hagens Berman and
Robertson & Associates charge that the indoor air quality testing program that Lumber
Liquidators' is offering anyone who bought its Chinese-made laminate is a total sham.


This came as little surprise to me, as I've spoken with numerous people in the industry
and, without exception, they tell me that Lumber Liquidators is a notorious bad actor:
cutting corners at every opportunity, selling very low-quality products and then not
standing behind them, treating customers, installers and employees badly, and, most
damningly, not being serious about compliance.


While I wasn't surprised to learn that Lumber Liquidators' testing program is a sham, the
details were nevertheless shocking. This company's brazenness and depravity appear to
know no bounds.


The primary charges of the Robertson lawsuit are:


1. The materials sent to customers make two false and misleading statements;



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLindoorairqualitytest.pdf

https://www.indoorairtest.com/ll.asp

http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLHagensBemanlawsuit.pdf

http://www.tilsonfunds.com/LLRobertsonlawsuit.pdf
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 4/44


2. PACS cannot be considered independent;
3. PACS is doing both the sampling and the testing, which creates a conflict of interest


and is contrary to industry best practices;
4. PACS shares homeowners' test results with Lumber Liquidators, a gross breach of


confidentiality;
5. The methodology used to collect the air samples is highly unreliable and unscientific


and is likely to significantly understate the true level of formaldehyde in the air;
6. Test results for four customers (plaintiffs in the two lawsuits) show troubling levels of


formaldehyde, yet PACS told Lumber Liquidators' customers not to worry, citing a
guideline that only assumes "30-minute average concentration."; and


7. Even when customers, at their own expense, hired independent, qualified technicians
to measure the formaldehyde in their homes, Lumber Liquidators was dismissive of the
findings.


Let's examine each of these, with a particular focus on 5), 6) and 7), which are the most
damning.


1) The materials Building Health Check sends to customers make two false and
misleading statements.


According to the Robertson lawsuit:


The instructions on the Bio-Badges sent to Plaintiffs claim the badge "analyzes for
personal exposure and room concentration." However, the instructions omit to inform
the user that in its advertising on the internet, Building Health Services, LLC
advertises that in order to conduct "personal exposure monitoring", the user must
clip the badge onto the person (e.g., clothing) "near the breathing zone" and wear
the device for 24 hours. The instructions sent to Plaintiffs instruct the Plaintiffs to
place the Bio-Badge in the center of the room four feet above the floor…


Second, the Bio-Badge packaging claims that it is the "Same Sample Screen Used
by Professionals." This statement is false…


…The Defendants' "one-size-fits-all" approach to using the Bio-Badge is not "the
most effective way to measure the total level of formaldehyde in the home" as
represented on Lumber Liquidators' Health and Safety webpage, nor is it the "Same
Sample Screen Used by Professionals" as represented by Building Health Check,
LLC and EDLab on the packaging for the Bio-Badge.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 5/44


2) PACS cannot be considered independent. 
In a declaration to the court associated with the Hagens Berman lawsuit, Elisabeth Black,
a Certified Industrial Hygienist with 25 years' experience, commented:


Finally, it is worth noting that the test kits provided by Lumber Liquidators cannot be
considered an independent assessment of formaldehyde exposures. Lumber
Liquidators has selected the test method, has contracted with the analytical
laboratory, and will likely determine which criteria to use for evaluation. A
scientifically valid test method should be selected, the sampling protocol defined,
and the analytical laboratory contracted by a truly independent laboratory in order to
reduce potential conflicts of interest.


3) PACS is doing both the sampling and the testing, which creates a conflict of
interest and is contrary to industry best practices. 
According to the Robertson lawsuit:


Pure Air Control Services, Inc. owns and has a financial interest in both the testing
company hired by Lumber Liquidators and the lab which performs the analysis of the
home test kits for Lumber Liquidators. This practice is contrary to the industry
standard where an industrial hygiene company typically collects the indoor air
samples and then sends those samples to an independent laboratory for analysis.
This standard practice removes any conflict of interest between the company taking
the indoor air samples and the lab reporting and explaining the results. According to
the American Board of Industrial Hygiene Code of Ethics, an industrial hygienist
must "disclose to clients or employees significant circumstances that could be
construed as a conflict of interest" and "assure that a conflict of interest does not
compromise legitimate interests of a client, employer, employee or the public and
does not influence or interfere with professional judgement." Neither Lumber
Liquidators, Building Health Check, LLC or EDLab disclosed the financial ties or
common ownership between the testing company and the lab Hired by Lumber
Liquidators to conduct the indoor air sampling in the Plaintiffs' homes.


When I asked Robertson to explain the importance of having one company do the indoor
air sampling and then another analyzing the results, he explained:



http://www.tilsonfunds.com/ElisabethBlackDeclaration.pdf
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 6/44


In most cases, the conflict (if one company does both) is that, when analyzing the
samples, they will over-report the results to drive more business to themselves.


But in this case, the concern is the opposite: that they'll under-report the results (on
behalf of Lumber Liquidators) to lull the customers into a false sense of security.


4) PACS shares homeowners' test results with Lumber Liquidators, a gross breach
of confidentiality. 
The Robertson lawsuit notes:


Further evidence that the lab is not "independent" is the fact that EDLab routinely
shares the results of the home test kits with Lumber Liquidators, a fact with both
Lumber Liquidators and Building Health Check, LLC conceal from Lumber
Liquidators' customers who order the home test kits...This gross breach of
confidentiality violates the American Board of Industrial Hygiene's Code of Ethics…


5) The methodology used to collect the air samples is highly unreliable and
unscientific and is likely to significantly understate the true level of formaldehyde in
the air.


Elsewhere in her declaration, industrial hygienist Elisabeth Black commented on the
testing program that Lumber Liquidators is offering its customers, which she says is "the
cheapest possible way to test," "cannot be considered valid" and "will likely provide some
consumers with poor data that give them a false sense of security":
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 7/44


Lumber Liquidators states that the formaldehyde test is "idiot proof". It may be true
that it is easy to collect and air sample using this test, but it is misleading in that it is
usually quite difficult to collect a scientifically valid sample that accurately measures
the true degree of risk related to the presence of formaldehyde containing flooring in
the home. It is unlikely that a user will be able to collect a valid and useful sample
using this oversimplified test protocol.


Hazard assessment is not a one-size-fits-all procedure. A qualified professional
trained in environmental science, industrial hygiene, or toxicology should be
employed to design a sampling strategy and collect sample data that will accurately
and reliably represent the degree of risk for homeowners with formaldehyde-
containing laminate flooring. A competent professional would design a custom
process to account for various conditions in an effort to collect samples the represent
worst-case conditions in order to be protecting for all conditions.


A number of factors must be considered when collecting valid and reliable air
samples where the results will be used to assess whether the level of formaldehyde
present in a home is safe. A qualified professional would take these factors into
account when designing a sampling strategy. The IAQ Screen Check for
Formaldehyde test kit does not adequately account for at least the factors listed
below...


…Without these considerations, it is my opinion that the testing cannot be
considered valid.


…Lumber Liquidators has selected the cheapest possible way to test formaldehyde
in its customers' homes, at the expense of valuable data. Even when the test kit is
used as directed, the results will not likely be valid because the air sampling failed to
account for existing conditions. In many cases, using [this] invalid and unreliable
sampling strategy…will likely provide a false negative - a test result indicating the
dwelling is safe, when in fact it is not. The resident then may feel that the issue is
resolved and may delay or forego the steps that should be taken immediately to
eliminate or reduce formaldehyde exposures.


…The Lumber Liquidators formaldehyde test kit procedure will likely provide some
consumers with poor data that give them a false sense of security. The result could
be years of additional exposure to formaldehyde above the health-based criteria
ending up with health issues, ranging from respiratory disease to cancer.
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 8/44


6) Test results for four customers (plaintiffs in the two lawsuits) show troubling
levels of formaldehyde, yet PACS told Lumber Liquidators' customers not to worry,
citing incorrect, dated information. 
This table summarizes the formaldehyde levels shown by tests of the indoor air in the
homes of four Lumber Liquidators' customers who've recently installed the company's
Chinese-made laminate:


As I discussed in my last article, More On Lumber Liquidators And Formaldehyde, even
the lowest of these numbers is troubling - and the high ones indicate extremely dangerous
levels of formaldehyde that would cause any sane homeowner to immediately rip out the
flooring in question.


So what is Lumber Liquidators telling its customers? We only have one data point, Ms.
Cottington, because she's the only one of the four who used Lumber Liquidators' test
methodology. In her case, the 38 ppb that EDLab reported is higher than the 7-33 ppb
range that four different regulators have set, as I showed in my last article.


So did EDLab tell Ms. Cottington that its test results showed levels of formaldehyde
significantly above safe limits set by numerous regulators, including two in her home state
of California? OF COURSE NOT! EDLab, no doubt following Lumber Liquidators'
instructions, in its report to Ms. Cottington wrote, "…any results which exceed 0.081 ppm
[81 ppb] warrant a re-test for further evaluation," citing this 2010 report by the World
Health Organization [see page 142; 0.1 mg/m3 = 81 ppb]. Note, however, that this is for
"30-minute average concentration", which is not the appropriate standard for flooring in
one's home, where children and babies might be playing/crawling on the floor for many
hours every day.


Notes: 1) The first three are tests by independent technicians; the Cottington results are from EDLab; 2) The lawsuit


doesn't specify, but the Brandt results are so high that I assume the technician did a chamber (CARB) test using


deconstruction, not an air test, so the relevant baseline is CARB's 0.011 ppm [110 ppb] standard; and 3) the 1,000 and


5,010 ppb results for the Collins family are from "air sampling at the floor level…and air sampling of laminate planks in


an unopened package."



https://seekingalpha.com/article/3072996-more-on-lumber-liquidators-and-formaldehyde

http://www.euro.who.int/__data/assets/pdf_file/0009/128169/e94535.pdf

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/4/20/saupload_Screen_shot_2015-04-20_at_4.20.39_PM.png
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 9/44


For more on what various regulators have established as safe levels of formaldehyde in
indoor air, see my last article and also this part of the Robertson lawsuit:


For example, the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry (ATSDR) has
published a "minimum risk level" for chronic exposure to formaldehyde of 0.008 ppm
[8 ppb]. The California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment (OEHHA)
has recommended that formaldehyde levels not exceed 0.002 [2 ppb] for chronic
exposure. Finally, the EPA has stated that formaldehyde concentrations in indoor air
should not exceed 0.008 ppm [8 ppb] in order to minimize cancer risk. None of these
lower threshold levels were included in the lab report from EDLab sent to Ms.
Cottington. Ms. Cottington's lab test results from EDLab exceeded ATSDR, OEHHA
and the EPA's recommended exposure levels.


7) Even when customers, at their own expense, hired independent, qualified
technicians to measure the formaldehyde in their homes, Lumber Liquidators was
dismissive of the findings. 
Three of the four plaintiffs named in the two different lawsuits hired, at their own expense,
independent, qualified technicians to measure the formaldehyde in their homes. According
to the Hagens Berman lawsuit:


When the Brandts called Lumber Liquidators to report the technician's findings,
Lumber Liquidators was dismissive of the findings and did not offer to replace or
even remove the flooring. A customer service representative claimed the
independent test was not accurate, claimed that the tests reported on 60 Minutes
were also not accurate, and insisted that all Lumber Liquidators' products were
completely safe and that there was no reason to remove the floors.


After dismissing the findings of both the lab findings reported on 60 Minutes and of
the independent technician, the Lumber Liquidators' representative directed Ms.
Brandt to instead use the do-it-yourself air testing kit Lumber Liquidators would
provide for "proper testing." The Brandts were mailed the same kit that Industrial
Hygienist, Elisabeth Black, evaluated and found unreliable. The Brandts performed
the air test and mailed the kit to the address provided. Several weeks have passed
and they have not yet received the results.


Similarly, in the Robertson lawsuit:
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 10/44


Plaintiff Craig Lyznick…hired an industrial hygiene company to test the indoor air in
his home for formaldehyde gas. On or about March 20, 2015, Mr. Lyznick received
the results of that testing, which showed an "elevated" concentration of 46 and 41
ppb, respectively in the two rooms where he had installed the Formaldehyde
Flooring. On March 26, 2015, Mr. Lyznick notified both the Lumber Liquidator's store
where he purchased the Formaldehyde Flooring and Lumber Liquidator's corporate
office of the results of this testing and demanded that the Formaldehyde Flooring be
removed immediately. On or about March 26, 2015, Mr. Lyznick received and email
from "Misty" at Lumber Liquidator's corporate office instructing him to send his test
results to LLCustomerRelations@LumberLiquidators.com. Misty's email further
instructed Mr. Lyznick to retest his indoor air using Lumber Liquidator's home test kit
and submit that test for analysis and "we will review your test results as soon as we
receive them."


What Lumber Liquidators Needs to Do Right Now 
In light of this overwhelming evidence, it appears clear that the testing program Lumber
Liquidators is offering is a compete sham, sure to vastly understate the formaldehyde its
customers are being exposed to (which is, of course, the company's intention).


What Lumber Liquidators needs to do right now is very simple: immediately cease its
current testing program and instead offer its customers a genuinely professional one that
would give homeowners information they could rely upon - and either have peace of mind
or know that they need to take action.


Of course, there is no chance that Lumber Liquidators will do this voluntarily, in part
because of the cost (around $1,500/home) but mostly because the last thing the company
wants is for its customers (or anyone else) to know the truth: that its Chinese-made
laminate flooring is exposing large numbers of its customers to dangerous levels of
formaldehyde.


But I'm optimistic that a judge or regulator will soon compel Lumber Liquidators to do the
right thing, which will be bad news for the stock for a number of reasons:
5/23/2018 Lumber Liquidators' Offer To Do Indoor Air Quality Testing Appears To Be A Sham - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL) | Seeki…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3080906-lumber-liquidators-offer-to-do-indoor-air-quality-testing-appears-to-be-a-sham 11/44


