5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call
Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators
Mar. 26, 2015 9:09 AM ET100 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


The Consumer Product Safety Commission, coordinating with five other federal
agencies, is investigating Lumber Liquidators.


CPSC Chairman Elliot Kaye appears to be thoughtful, fair-minded, determined to get
to the truth, and very strong willed.


The fact that the CPSC testing won’t use “deconstruction” doesn’t support the
company’s claim that the testing methodology used by 60 Minutes, myself, and
others is invalid.


Rather, the CPSC’s use of “exposure scenario” tests means that Lumber Liquidators
faces liability from two different types of tests – a double whammy.


In a conference call yesterday morning, Elliot S. Kaye, Chairman of the U.S. Consumer
Product Safety Commission (CPSC), made a statement about his agency's investigation
of Lumber Liquidators and then took questions from reporters (the statement and audio of
the 22-minute call are posted here).


I couldn't be more pleased with the call, both in what Chairman Kaye said as well as his
general attitude and demeanor. He appeared to me to be thoughtful, fair-minded,
determined to get to the truth, and very strong willed - importantly, he didn't strike me as
someone who Lumber Liquidators and its representatives will be able to bully. I was also
impressed with how quickly the CPSC is moving: in less than a month, it not only appears
to be fully engaged, but is also coordinating with many other federal agencies, including:


The Environmental Protection Agency;
The Federal Trade Commission;
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention;
The Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry; and
The National Institute for Environmental Health Sciences, which coordinates and runs
the National Toxicology Program (part of the National Institutes of Health).



http://www.cpsc.gov/en/Newsroom/Press-Statements/CPSC-Chairman-Elliot-F-Kayes-statement-on-Lumber-Liquidators/
5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


That's an impressive line-up! Collectively, I think these agencies are likely to definitively
show what I'm quite certain is true: that Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate
flooring has high levels of formaldehyde and thus poses a serious health risk to
consumers.


So why was the stock up more than 10% yesterday? In part, perhaps, relief that the CPSC
didn't immediately force Lumber Liquidators to stop selling its toxic laminate (which was
never in the cards - the CPSC needs to do its work before taking action), but mostly, I
think, because Chairman Kaye said the CPSC's testing would not use deconstruction,
which appears (at least to those blindingly accepting what the company is saying rather
than doing solid, independent analysis) to confirm the company's claim that the testing
methodology used by 60 Minutes, myself and others is "invalid." Nothing could be further
from the truth.


The misunderstanding is due to Lumber Liquidators sowing confusion (no doubt
deliberately) between measuring formaldehyde levels that Lumber Liquidators' customers
are actually exposed to, which is what the CPSC cares about, vs. the standards set by the
California Air Resources Board (CARB).


CARB Tests: Single Whammy


Regarding the latter, CARB does not require testing finished products - only the medium-
density fiberboard core prior to being processed into laminate - but if one tests finished
product, CARB is very clear that it must first be deconstructed (for more on this, see three
of my prior articles: Why Lumber Liquidators' Wood Testing Doesn't Comply With CARB,
Lumber Liquidators' Campaign Of Distraction And Deception, and Explaining Lumber
Liquidators' Reckless Strategy And Rebutting Its Claims About Deconstructive Testing).
Thus, 60 Minutes, I and others did the testing correctly and consequently I have no doubt
that when CARB does its own tests (with deconstruction) of Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-
made laminate, it will see similar results: formaldehyde levels averaging 6-7 times the limit
it set. This will of course be very bad news for Lumber Liquidators.


CPSC Exposure Scenario Tests: Double Whammy


I believe there will be equally bad news for the company - a double whammy - when the
CPSC completes its very different tests, called “exposure scenarios,” that seek to measure
how much formaldehyde the buyers of Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate are
actually being exposed to. This kind of test doesn’t involve deconstructing the laminate, so
the fact that Chairman Kaye confirmed this fact on the call isn’t a bullish sign for Lumber
Liquidators (contrary to what some investors and analysts concluded yesterday).



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2972606-why-lumber-liquidators-wood-testing-doesnt-comply-with-carb

https://seekingalpha.com/article/2990196-lumber-liquidators-campaign-of-distraction-and-deception

https://seekingalpha.com/article/3001666-explaining-lumber-liquidators-reckless-strategy-and-rebutting-its-claims-about-deconstructive-testing
5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


Ironically, while the company calls for "real-world" tests, in fact it hasn't done any exposure
scenarios at all! Instead, it's just done tests of its finished laminate - but contrary to explicit
CARB guidance, without deconstruction - yet nevertheless has taken these bogus results
and proclaimed that its laminate is CARB 2-compliant. What mendacity and chutzpah!


Even more ironically, 60 Minutes, which Lumber Liquidators' founder and Chairman, Tom
Sullivan, accused of "making up this story," actually did the exposure scenario tests that
the CPSC will be doing - and the results were damning for the company, as all three tests
showed levels of formaldehyde orders of magnitude higher than the acceptable exposure
levels that have been established to protect Americans, especially children. For more on
this, here’s an extended excerpt from my article, A Response to Lumber Liquidators:



https://seekingalpha.com/article/2996156-a-response-to-lumber-liquidators
5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


Lumber Liquidators' second line of defense (implied by the company and made
explicit by its defenders) is that, even if its laminate has levels of formaldehyde
above the CARB limit, where's the harm?


For starters, read what the National Cancer Institute and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention have to say about formaldehyde: it can cause "watery eyes;
burning sensations in the eyes, nose, and throat; coughing; wheezing; nausea; and
skin irritation," "upper respiratory tract irritation [that] can potentially exacerbate
asthma symptoms and other respiratory illnesses," "chronic runny nose, chronic
bronchitis, and obstructive lung disease," and is a "known human carcinogen"
associated with "several cancers, including nasopharyngeal cancer and leukemia."


But at low levels, serious symptoms are unlikely - so the real question is, what is the
actual, real-world level of formaldehyde Lumber Liquidators is exposing its
customers to via its laminate and what harm might result from this?


The company, not surprisingly, says the level is very low, as shown in slide 16 of its
presentation:


Lumber Liquidators claims that "The emissions from our laminate floors will typically
only add approximately 5 ppb to a home when first installed." If true, this would be
good news since regulators have set 7 ppb as the limit to protect everyone, including



http://www.cancer.gov/cancertopics/causes-prevention/risk-factors/cancer-causing-substances/formaldehyde/formaldehyde-fact-sheet

http://bit.ly/1E8j8gg

https://static.seekingalpha.com/uploads/2015/3/26/saupload_Screen_shot_2015-03-26_at_9.50.24_AM.png
5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


children.


But the company's claim flies in the face of the evidence. 60 Minutes (which, again,
posted all of its test results here) hired a lab to test three samples of Lumber
Liquidators' laminate, using the California Department of Public Health home model,
which tests how much formaldehyde a typical homeowner would actually be
exposed to. In sharp contrast to the company's claims, these tests showed the
following levels:


Sample 1: ~268 ppb/.268 ppm OR 329.3 μg/m3
Sample 2: ~93 ppb/.093 ppm OR 113.6 μg/m3
Sample 3: ~57 ppb/.057ppm OR 69.96 μg/m3



http://www.cbsnews.com/news/more-on-tests-used-to-investigate-lumber-liquidators/
5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


In other words, the actual levels of formaldehyde were 11-54 times the levels
claimed by Lumber Liquidators. Whose tests are you going to believe?


When 60 Minutes showed these results to Dr. Philip Landrigan, one of the world's
leading experts on this subject (see his bio here and here), he said (according to the
transcript):


Dr. Philip Landrigan: It's not a safe level, it's a level that the US EPA calls
polluted indoor conditions.


Anderson Cooper: Would you want that in your home?


Dr. Philip Landrigan: No.


Dr. Philip Landrigan of N.Y.'s Mt. Sinai Hospital, specializes in environmental
pediatrics and exposure to toxic chemicals. He's talking about the results of
another kind of test Drury and Larson conducted measuring the concentration
of formaldehyde emissions coming off the laminates into the air of a typical
home.


Dr. Philip Landrigan: I would say long-term exposure at that level would be
risky because it would increase the risk for chronic respiratory irritation, change
in a person's lung function, increased risk of asthma. It's not going to produce
symptoms in everyone but children will be the people most likely to show
symptoms at that sort of level.


In light of these frightening risks, especially to children, it's little wonder why Lumber
Liquidators is trying to understate its customers' actual exposure to formaldehyde.


Conclusion


The fact that a half dozen federal agencies are working together to aggressively
investigate Lumber Liquidators is grim news for the company, as is the fact that we now
know, after yesterday's call, that the company faces liability from two different types of
tests: CARB's deconstructive test as well as the CPSC's exposure scenario test - both of
which Lumber Liquidators' Chinese-made laminate flooring has already failed in
spectacular fashion. When the regulators confirm this, I believe the company will face
severe sanctions, penalties and contingent liabilities that will crush the stock, which is why
it remains my largest short position by far.



http://www.mountsinai.org/profiles/philip-j-landrigan

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Philip_J._Landrigan

http://www.cbsnews.com/news/lumber-liquidators-linked-to-health-and-safety-violations
5/23/2018 Why The U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission Conference Call Portends A Double Whammy For Lumber Liquidators - Lumber Li…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/3029526-why-the-u-s-consumer-product-safety-commission-conference-call-portends-a-double-whammy-for-lumber-liquidators


