5/23/2018 Why I Significantly Increased My Lumber Liquidators Short Position In The Last Two Days - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2980746-why-i-significantly-increased-my-lumber-liquidators-short-position-in-the-last-two-days 1/26


Why I Significantly Increased My Lumber Liquidators Short Position In
The Last Two Days
Mar. 6, 2015 1:56 PM ET112 comments
by: Whitney Tilson


Summary


I added materially to my short position on Wednesday and yesterday.


Millions of LL’s past, present and future customers are aware of the formaldehyde
issue – and they are freaking out based on numerous anecdotal stories I’m hearing.


I think it’s very likely that LL’s margins will quickly fall to the 4-8% range they’d
always been in.


After not trading the stock at all since early October last year – I didn’t want there to be
any questions about my trading in advance of the 60 Minutes story (you think nearly five
months is conservative enough? ;-) – I added materially to my short position on
Wednesday and yesterday, such that it is now a 3.8% position, which is a very large for a
short for me.


Allow me to explain why:


I’m not even trying to hazard a guess at what LL’s liabilities might be (though I think it’s
likely that they’ll be far more than enough to swamp the company, making the stock a
zero) because I don’t have to have an opinion on this to have this be my largest short
today. My rationale is as follows:


On the revenue side, this story has been picked up by a ton of local news outlets across
the country, so millions of LL’s past, present and future customers are aware of the
formaldehyde issue – and they are freaking out based on numerous anecdotal stories I’m
hearing: installers saying most of their jobs have been cancelled, contractors swearing to
customers that they’ll never use LL’s products ever again, etc. This leads me to believe
that LL’s sales ($1.047 billion last year) will take a major, lasting hit, no matter what spin
the company puts out there. How big of a hit and for how long? Who knows. But it will be
very material I think.


On the expense/margin side, the company faces major issues:


Legal and compliance costs going through the roof immediately;
5/23/2018 Why I Significantly Increased My Lumber Liquidators Short Position In The Last Two Days - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2980746-why-i-significantly-increased-my-lumber-liquidators-short-position-in-the-last-two-days 2/26


Government penalties/sanctions associated with Lacey Act violations (i.e., buying
hardwoods that were illegally harvested in Siberia) (by the way, the formaldehyde
scandal makes it much more likely that the government will act forcefully in this area,
now that they know the company is a bad actor in other areas); and
Likely massive (though unquantifiable) contingent liabilities.


But even ignoring all of this, at the very least LL now has to of course start sourcing its
products legally, which I think are likely to bring margins back to historical levels (if not
below them). This chart shows LL’s operating margin going back 11 years (all the data
CapitalIQ had):


This chart captures what was a key factor in my initial short thesis: since when does a
commodity business, competing against giants like Home Depot and Lowe’s, with an
operating margin consistently between 4-8%, suddenly (in less than two years) more than
double margins? That’s so unusual and inexplicable that I figured they had to be cheating
(and was I ever right!).


Thus, I think it’s very likely that LL’s margins, which were already starting to return to
historical levels in 2014, will quickly fall to the 4-8% range they’d always been in (and I’m
being very generous in excluding a possibly massive hit to sales and skyrocketing
expenses due to the formaldehyde scandal).
5/23/2018 Why I Significantly Increased My Lumber Liquidators Short Position In The Last Two Days - Lumber Liquidators Holdings, Inc. (NYSE:LL)…


https://seekingalpha.com/article/2980746-why-i-significantly-increased-my-lumber-liquidators-short-position-in-the-last-two-days 3/26


