Muddy Waters Capital, LLC 


 info@muddywatersresearch.com 
Director of Research:  Carson C. Block, Esq.	
  








Terms of Service: 


Terms of Service: By downloading from, or viewing material on, the Muddy Waters Research website you agree to the 
following Terms of Service. You agree that use of Muddy Waters Capital LLC’s research is at your own risk. In no event 
will you hold Muddy Waters Capital LLC, Muddy Waters, LLC or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading 
losses caused by any information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence before making 
any investment decision with respect to securities covered herein. You represent that you have sufficient investment 
sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinion contained herein. You further agree that you will 
not communicate the contents of this report to any other person unless that person has agreed to be bound by these 
same terms of service. If you download or receive the contents of this report as an agent for any other person, you are 
binding your principal to these same Terms of Service.  
 
You should assume that as of the publication date of our reports and research, Muddy Waters Capital LLC 
(possibly along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our 
clients and/or investors and/or their clients and/or investors has a short position in all stocks (and/or options, 
swaps, and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore stands to realize 
significant gains in the event that the price of either declines. We intend to continue transacting in the securities 
of issuers covered on this site for an indefinite period after our first report, and we may be long, short, or neutral 
at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation.  
 
This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, nor shall Muddy Waters offer, sell or buy any 
security to or from any person through this site or reports on this site. Muddy Waters Capital LLC is not registered as an 
investment advisor in any jurisdiction.  
 
If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are accessing research and materials as or on behalf of: (a) an 
investment professional falling within Article 19 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) 
Order 2005 (the "FPO"); or (b) high net worth entity falling within Article 49 of the FPO.  
 
Our research and reports express our opinions, which we have based upon generally available information, field research, 
inferences and deductions through our due diligence and analytical process. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be 
accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or who may otherwise 
owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without 
warranty of any kind, whether express or implied. Muddy Waters Capital LLC makes no representation, express or 
implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard to the results to be 
obtained from its use. Further, any report on this site contains a very large measure of analysis and opinion. All 
expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Muddy Waters Capital LLC does not undertake to update 
or supplement any reports or any of the information, analysis and opinion contained in them.  
 
You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by 
providing the following link: http://www.muddywatersresearch.com/research/. If you have obtained Muddy Waters 
Research in any manner other than by download from that link, you may not read such research without going to that link 
and agreeing to the Terms of Service. You further agree that any dispute arising from your use of this report and / or the 
Muddy Waters Research website or viewing the material hereon shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, 
without regard to any conflict of law provisions. You knowingly and independently agree to submit to the personal and 
exclusive jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of California and waive your right to any other 
jurisdiction or applicable law, given that Muddy Waters Capital LLC has offices in California. The failure of Muddy Waters 
Capital LLC to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall not constitute a waiver of this 
right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the 
parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the 
provision and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this 
governing law and jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or 
cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after 
such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. 


Use of Muddy Waters reports is limited by the Terms of Service on its website, which are as 
follows.  To be authorized to access such reports, you must agree to these terms, regardless of 
whether you have downloaded its reports directly from this website or someone else has 
supplied the report to you without authorization from Muddy Waters.   
	
  


Page 1 of 9
Muddy Waters Capital LLC 
January 13, 2016 


 
Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Casino* (*But Were Afraid to 


Ask)1 
 
Dear Mr. Giscard D’Estaing: 
 
Neither Casino nor its more vocal defending analysts have given us reason to adjust our 
estimate of Casino’s equity value of approximately €7 per share.  On the contrary, since 
we announced our short thesis on December 17th, five of Casino’s six listed subsidiaries 
have dropped in value by 8% to 27%.  With Rallye’s NAV less than zero at Casino’s 
current share price, we similarly have not seen a reason to change our estimate of its 
value.   
 
Casino’s response stated that our short thesis contained “a number of false and 
misleading allegations”.2  Despite this bluster Casino’s response failed to address the core 
concerns we outlined.  This response reminds us of the reaction from Noble Group 
(NOBL SP) to our April 2015 short thesis, calling it “inaccurate, unreliable, and 
misleading”.3  When we shorted Noble it was rated BBB- (like Casino).  We criticized 
Noble for its leverage and aggressive accounting (similar to our criticism of Casino).  
Noble has since been downgraded by both ratings agencies and its stock has declined by 
64%.   
 
We find two aspects of Casino’s response to our short particularly interesting, which is 
part of why we’re writing this open list of questions. First, Casino took only 
approximately 3.5 hours from the release of our short thesis to threaten to sue us.  In 
activist short selling, such a kneejerk reaction from a company is often a strong validation 
of the short thesis.  (In our experience, only Sino-Forest might have been faster with a 
lawsuit threat.)   Second, Casino cited S&P’s recent rating as support for a purportedly 
“solid” financial structure. S&P’s calculations contain material arithmetic errors that we 
did not previously discuss.  We would think these errors would have been evident to 
Casino.   
 
To encourage transparency and accuracy we’re publishing a list of 10 questions for you 
to answer on the January 14th call.  We hope you will overcome your apparent aversion to 
answering pointed questions for this occasion.  In reviewing transcripts, we note that you 
told questioners six times in calls held during H2 2015 that the items they wanted to 
know about were not the purpose, objective, or subject of the call.  We count 13 times 
since 2013 that you told questioners the company does not disclose a particular number.  
There are also numerous instances of your using the phrase “by definition”, which we 
interpret as often signaling your discomfort discussing a particular topic.  Should you 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
1 This is definitely not everything, but it’s a good start. 
2 http://www.groupe-casino.fr/en/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2015/12/CP-VA-21-12-2015.pdf 
3 http://thisisnoble.com/noble-news/2566-mw20150410.html 


Page 2 of 9
wish to regain investors’ confidence or change our minds, you should answer these 
questions fully, openly, and without caveats. 
 
Many of the questions get to the heart of whether there is truly a recovery in Casino’s 
France retail business.  If our estimates of property sale contributions to EBITDA are 
correct, then in 2014 and H1 2015, the France business deteriorated substantially more 
than investors understand.  What is the evidence of a meaningful and sustainable 
recovery in Casino’s France business beyond management’s bullish EBITDA guidance 
and recent miniscule market share gains? 
 
The confidence you and the company have expressed in 2015 France guidance could be 
explained by Casino generating an abundance of EBITDA through property transactions.  
When a company controls the amount of profit it books, it’s a lot easier to forecast the 
results.   
 
Casino touted a 20 bps market share gain in the month of November 2015 as a sign of 
recovery.  We note that Casino’s average market share throughout 2015 was actually 
lower than its average market share throughout 2014 (11.51% vs. 11.55%).  Average 
market share in H2 2015 was only seven bps greater than in H2 2014 (11.58% vs. 
11.51%).  Despite the retail genius behind Casino’s aggressive discounting strategy, 
which you were touting on calls as early as January 2013, Casino’s 11.6% market share 
as of November 29, 2015 is lower than the 11.8% share as of March 24, 2013.  
 
The table below showing Casino’s market share versus its “Real” EBITDA (i.e., 
excluding our estimate of gains on sale in 2014 and 2015) strongly casts doubt on the 
notion that there’s any relationship between Casino’s present market share and EBITDA 
generated by selling products in stores.  
 





Page 3 of 9
To throw down the gauntlet, we think it highly likely that Casino’s discounting strategy 
has not generated much of an increase in profitability, and that the company is using 
property sale gains to cover this up. 
 
Casino seems to be following the financial engineer’s handbook, which generally goes as 
follows: 
 


1. Control person(s) have significant equity stakes and / or equity incentives, 
2. They aggressively seek to grow earnings through debt financing, 
3. As debt grows, their focus grows to include gaming credit metrics – particularly 


operating cash flow. 
 
Usually this ends quite badly for companies and investors. Noble Group followed the 
same pattern.  
 
Your complete and intellectually honest answers to the following questions will go a long 
way toward allowing investors to determine whether our opinion, that Casino is a highly-
levered, poorly performing business being hollowed-out and managed primarily to buy 
time for the massive debt its controlling shareholder has amassed, is reasonable. 
 
Sincerely, 
Carson C. Block 
 
 
1. How much EBITDA has been, and is expected to be, generated by property 


sales?  This answer should individually cover 2014, H1 2015, H2 2015, and 
2016. 
 
The company’s failure to address our estimates of respective property sale gain 
contributions to EBITDA in 2014 and LTM of €140 million and €165 million 
gives us confidence our estimates are not high.  However, the company’s 
continued sensitivity about discussing the numbers makes us concerned that the 
property sale gains included in EBITDA might be even greater than we estimated.   
 
There is no investor-friendly reason to refuse to provide this information.  We 
continue to believe that despite Casino’s view the property sales are operating 
activities, when combined with Casino’s leaseback or repurchase, the sales are in 
fact financing transactions.  We therefore can only interpret Casino’s steadfast 
refusal to date to provide this information as a tacit acknowledgment that 
investors should not in fact view them as operating activities, and should not 
attach a multiple to their EBITDA contributions. Bottom line: if there’s nothing to 
hide, then stop hiding it. 
 





Page 4 of 9
2. How is booking gains on sales of property so that they’re included in 
EBITDA consistent with Casino’s disclosed accounting policy or IFRS? 
 
Casino’s response states that it “strictly applies” IFRS.  If we’re correct that 
significant property sale gains are included in EBITDA, then we strongly 
disagree.  Unless the company has a rationale we haven’t considered, this practice 
seems to directly contravene its policy on accounting for asset de-recognition. 
Casino’s disclosed asset de-recognition policy, which mirrors IFRS policy, reads 
as follows:  
 


“An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised on disposal or 
when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. 
The gain or loss arising from the derecognition of an asset is determined 
as the difference between the net sale proceeds, if any, and the carrying 
amount of the asset.  It is recognised in profit or loss (“Other operating 
income and expense”) when the asset is derecognised” 


 
If Casino adhered to the above policy and books property sale gains as Other 
Operating Income, these gains would not be included in EBITDA because they 
would be below the Operating Income line.  As we discuss next, as of 2013, 
Casino appeared to account for these gains in accordance with the above policy, 
which further calls into question Casino’s accounting for these gains in 2014 and 
H1 2015. 


 
3. Why did the company’s response imply that it has always included gains on 


property sales to Mercialys in EBITDA, when in 2013, the vast majority of 
the gains did not flow into EBITDA (because they were booked as Other 
Operating Income in accordance with the company’s disclosed policy for de-
recognition of assets)? 
 
Casino’s response to our criticism of its apparent practice in 2014 and 2015 of 
inflating France EBITDA by including gains on sales of properties reads in part 
(emphasis added): 
 


“As a fully-fledged operational activity, real estate development generates 
results, which have constantly been reflected in the EBITDA according to 
the Group’s accounting principles, and in compliance with IFRS 
standards.” 


 
However, as shown below, in 2013 Casino accounted for these gains outside of 
EBITDA (by accounting for them as Other Operating Income).  Therefore, 
Casino’s response appears to be an attempt to further mislead investors. 
 


Page 5 of 9
4. How much of the proceeds of property sales to Mercialys were, or are 
expected to be, included in Operating Cash Flow?   This answer should 
individually cover 2014, H1 2015, H2 2015, and 2016. 
 
It is likely that Casino’s OCF includes proceeds from the sales of properties to 
Mercialys.  Casino’s investing cash flow shows proceeds from disposals of non-
current assets in 2014 and H1 2015 that are far lower than the proceeds from 
property sales to Mercialys.  In addition, Casino uses the indirect method to 
prepare its cash flow statement.  In practice, the way that indirect statements are 
often prepared is by first preparing the Investing Cash Flow and Financing Cash 
Flow sections.  The difference between the periodic change in cash and the sum 
of Investing and Financing cash flow then often becomes the OCF number.  Any 
calculated change in OCF that can’t be mapped to a specific account is generally 
treated as “other” OCF in the reconciliation.   
 
If Casino’s cash flow statement treatment of property sale proceeds is consistent 
from 2014 through the present (and including Casino’s 2016 guidance), then an 
explanation of what portion of the proceeds are included in OCF would suffice 
(e.g., proceeds net of property purchases, gross property sale proceeds, IFRS 
gains only).  
 





Page 6 of 9
5. On a LTM basis, and on the Company’s 2016 forecast, did / will Casino 
generate Free Cash Flow per the following formula (all items pertain only to 
wholly-owned subsidiaries and the parent, unless otherwise noted):   
 


EBITDA (excluding gains / losses from asset sales) 
- interest expense 
- CapEx 
- cash taxes 
+ dividends (from non wholly-owned subsidiaries) 


 
FCF formulae differ.  We see a company that does not generate enough cash flow 
at the parent level to service debt and pay dividends.  Casino disagrees.  Casino’s 
guidance for its France / Parent 2016 FCF is bullish.  We question whether this 
FCF guidance is inflated by anticipated property and other asset sales. 	
  
 


6. Describe in detail the means by which Casino can upstream cash from its 
foreign subsidiaries to its parent.  This description should include the 
payment options (e.g., dividends, interest on loans from parent, repayment of 
principal on loans from parent, reduction of equity capital, etc.); the 
constraints on how, when, and how much Casino may make of each type of 
payment; the taxes applied to each type of payment; and any other 
limitations or leakage on these payments. 


 
This information is crucial for investors to understand how much cash Casino 
really has to service debt at the parent, and to pay dividends.  As we previously 
wrote, Casino’s consolidated financials are meaningless to understand the cash 
flow to the parent.  We strongly suspect the reality of what can be upstreamed is 
far less rosy than the consolidated financials would imply.  We invite the 
company to show otherwise. 





Page 7 of 9
7. Is Casino’s very temporary reduction of commercial paper outstanding at 
the end of 2015 an attempt to window dress the balance sheet?  Are there 
other ways in which Casino window dressed its 2015 financials (e.g., taking 
longer than usual to pay suppliers)? 
 
The table below showing the amount of commercial paper Casino has outstanding 
suggests that Casino has been window-dressing its accounts.4   
 





8. Is Casino aware of two fundamental errors in S&P’s leverage calculations: 
overstating the proportional EBITDA contribution from Via Varejo by €164 
million, and overstating proportional cash by €2.6 billion (thereby 
understating net debt)?   
 
We did not discuss these errors S&P made when we unveiled our short thesis 
because we hoped Casino in its response would point them out.  Instead, Casino 
defended S&P without condition or caveat.  Is Casino unaware of these errors; or, 
is Casino so intent on misleading investors that it failed to adequately caveat its 
defense of S&P? 
 
First, the overstatement of Via Varejo’s EBITDA contribution occurred because 
S&P’s flawed methodology assumes CDB owns 100% of Via Varejo.  S&P did 
not look through CBD's ownership of Via Varejo, which is only 43.3%.   As Via 
Varejo generated €737 million of EBITDA in 2014, this error results in a €164 
million overstatement of proportional EBITDA.   Second, and even more 
substantial, S&P does not make any adjustment for the proportional cash (i.e., 
cash held at non wholly-owned listed subsidiaries).  What this means is S&P only 
reduces Adjusted Net Debt by the non-controlling share of Adjusted Debt without 
regard to the cash that is not owned by Casino.   In other words, S&P erroneously 
assumes Casino has access to 100% of the surplus cash, and adjusted only for the 
gross debt at the listed subsidiaries – not the net debt.  Had S&P made an 
adjustment for proportional cash, Casino’s proportional adjusted debt would be 
€2.6 billion more than it used for its proportional leverage calculations. 
 
We expect Casino management would be aware of these material errors.  If 
management is aware of these errors, we do not think it’s appropriate to direct 
investors to S&P’s rating as assurance of Casino’s financial profile.   


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
4 CP Data obtained from https://www.banque-france.fr/en/monetary-policy/negotiable-debt-
securities/statistical-reports-and-data-downloads.html  


Page 8 of 9
9. If the store leases with fewer than 2.5 years remaining were not renewed, by 


how much would proportional EBITDA decrease?  
 
We stated that S&P’s operating lease adjustment methodology greatly understated 
the proportional debt because Casino’s contracted future lease obligations do not 
realistically reflect the lease payments Casino should expect to make in order to 
substantially maintain its existing business profile, revenue, EBITDA, profits, etc.  
Our point is that while the S&P methodology might work well for understanding 
the effective debt of many retailers, due to Casino’s idiosyncrasies, it understates 
the debt.  Answering this question will help investors compare Casino to other 
retailers.   
 
S&P’s 2014 lease expense was €801 million, which divided into S&P’s operating 
lease adjustment of €1.9 billion equals a remaining average term of Casino’s 
leases of just under 2.5 years. 


	
  
10. Given that the Fitch Group’s chairman has sat on Casino’s board since 2003, 


and that Mr. Naouri is on the board of the controlling shareholder of Fitch, 
how is it appropriate that Fitch rates Casino?5   
 
As we discuss supra, fundamental errors and questionably applicable 
methodology underpin S&P’s rating of Casino.  The Fitch rating poses another 
question: How easily could a ratings analyst find the courage to downgrade a 
company when the chairman of her ratings agency is a long serving board 
member of the company she rates?  We’re not sure there are a lot of fiercely 
independent personalities found among ratings analysts.  Mr. Naouri’s service on 
the board of Fimalac Group, which exercises significant control over the Fitch 
Group compounds this problem. 
 
 


	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  	
  
5 The Fimalac Group 2014 AR, p. 5 reads “We continue to hold a 20% stake in this very successful 
business and to play a significant role in its governance.” 


Page 9 of 9
