1 | P a g e  
 


Asanko Gold Primer – Feasibility Study and Reserve Update Focus Items 
Disclosure: K2 & Associates has a short position in Asanko shares 


Asanko appears poised to report an updated feasibility study along with a number of Year-end updates: 


 YE resources and reserves 


 A new mine plan 


 A new block model 


 Reserve reconciliations 


The updates will be coming on the heels of a year where we predicted (In our initial June report) Asanko 


would continuously extract less gold on a per-tonnage of rock mined (waste and ore) basis than their 


initial mine plan suggested.   


As predicted, this shortfall widened during every quarter. The table below shows the gap between actual 


reserve gold mined versus the Definitive Project Plan (DPP): 


  16 Q1 16 Q2 16 Q3 16 Q4 


Cumulative tonnage mined (Mt) 28.0 35.1 42.4 49.6 


Cumulative Reserve Gold Mined (koz) 20 78 152 236 


Cumulative DPP Gold Mined (koz) 75 146 246 354 


Cumulative Gold Shortfall (koz) 54 67 94 118 


- Actual gold mined based on processing and stockpile data from Company disclosures 


- Note: The DPP does not include any gold from inferred ounces – an adjustment must therefore be made for an accurate comparison with the 


DPP reserves. We have adjusted for an estimated ~20koz of inferred ounces mined to date 


- DPP data from AsankoGold Mine –Phase 1 Definitive Project Plan 


By Year End 2016, Asanko has extracted ~50Mt from Nkran, but mined ~118koz less from reserves than 


the DPP had predicted by the ~50Mt mark. 


Asanko appears to have deviated from their initial mine plan by mining deeper than planned in the ore 


zones and reducing/falling behind on planned waste stripping cutbacks (refer to our previous report available at 


www.asankoreport.com). As a result, we believe the table above significantly understates the likely scale of 


problems encountered at Nkran through 2016 YE. 


While we look forward to reviewing Asanko’s feasibility study in detail when the full document is 


published, our initial focus during the preliminary release will be on a few key items of interest:
2 | P a g e  
 


What to Look For?  Reserve reduction from mined areas at Nkran 


More Specifically: Look at how much gold Asanko removed from their initial reserves and 


compare this to actual reserve gold mined. 


Why Does This Matter? This will provide a good impression of how much reserve gold Asanko 


thought would exist, compared to what the reality was. 


If our thesis is accurate: we expect to see actual reserves mined of only 


~236koz, vs. actual reserve reduction from blocks mined of ~400koz – 


500koz. 


Could This Be Obscured? It appears Asanko will be swapping in a new block model and resource 


estimate to replace the original one in parallel with updating their year-


end resources/reserves. 


We may only see a before-and-after comparison of two entirely different 


models with different estimation methods and parameters. 


While we do not expect the Company to obscure reserve reduction from 


their initial reserve estimate, we will be highly critical if it is not made 


clear on an ‘apples-to-apples’ basis. 


Of note, early Company disclosures suggest they will be lowering the cut-


off grade at Nkran from 0.8g/t to 0.5g/t. 





What to Look For:  Whether Asanko provides a comprehensive reconciliation on all the 


blocks mined, or only reconciles the tonnes that were sent to the mill/ore 


stockpile. 


Why This Matters:  The difference here is key - if Asanko only includes tonnage sent to their 


mill/ore stockpile in their reserve reconciliation, this will likely cause a 


large selection bias.  


As an Example:   If you grade control 2 tonnes of rock that are expected to be ore, but 


instead find only 1 tonne of ore and 1 tonne of waste, then your ore 


reconciliation will only be 50% vs. expectations. 


You will send 1 tonne of ore to the stockpile/mill, and the other tonne to 


the waste pile. 


If you only consider the rock on the stockpile/mill in reconciliation work, 


then you will be able to claim 100% reconciliation based on your selection 


methodology. Essentially, you will be excluding the null values from your 


calculation. 


We expect that Asanko will show comprehensive bench reconciliations, 


but we will pay critical attention to their methodology.
3 | P a g e  
 





What to Look For?  Significant changes to Nkran’s mine plan and mine life. 


More Specifically Look for a substantial decrease in mine life and an accelerated rate of 


vertical descent within the pit, as well as a reduction in ounces per 


vertical meter. 


As always, reviewing the integrity of the new block model will be critical, 


but Nkran is bound by simple principles.   


The ore structures are mostly vertical in our understanding and 


concentrated at the center of the pit. To exploit the orebody faster, 


Asanko will have to descend faster and we will pay close attention to this 


area. 


If the orebody is underperforming on gold, then it will need to be 


exploited faster to compensate. 


Could This Be Obscured Yes, pay close attention to reduced transparency through ‘bundling’ of 


assets.  If their flagship asset is beginning to show major blemishes, it may 


be bundled in with other assets and the asset specific transparency from 


Asanko’s previous studies may be reduced to only show the consolidated 


bundle. 


 We do not expect Asanko to reduce transparency compared to their 


previous feasibility studies but, once again, will pay close attention
