ACRS (Aclaris Therapeutics):  ACRS Doesn’t Have JAK SHIT (PT:  $5) 


Part 2 in a Multipart Series on Aclaris (SHORT) / Concert Pharma  (LONG)  by Art Doyle 





Summary of this report:  


• The skittishness you see in ACRS stock is REAL—no one wants to be left 


holding the bag.    


• The primary addressable market for the ACRS hydrogen peroxide junk we 


already debunked in our first report was narrowed down by management to 


‘just the face’ on the last conference call.  2019 revenue assumptions 


SLASHED.  INDICATION AND MARKET COMING INTO QUESTION. 


• Oral JAK inhibitor beaten handily by first mover CNCE (working with 


Columbia University no less).  Even Pfizer is ahead.  


• ACRS’ lead JAK inhibitor was abandoned in 2012 by Rigel.  We know why 


Rigel stopped development after Phase 1…because we talked to former 


employees.  Do you?  ACRS IP is practically worthless in the JAK space.   


• INCY shows topical JAK inhibition does NOT work on alopecia areata.  Say 


goodbye to half of ACRS’ JAK pipeline (at least). 


• Full survey with SIGNIFICANT P VALUE reveals dermatologists’ negative 


opinions on Aclaris (our Part 3 reveal). 


Key Takeaways: 


1) ACRS will be an absolute commercialization catastrophe with their 


hydrogen peroxide garbage for SK 


2) They will lose the JAK inhibitor battle in dermatology.  They won’t 


even finish in second place. 



https://www.scribd.com/document/346246062/ACRS-Aclaris-Therapeutics-Caustic-Corrosive-Stock-You-WILL-Get-Burned-PT-5

https://www.scribd.com/document/346246062/ACRS-Aclaris-Therapeutics-Caustic-Corrosive-Stock-You-WILL-Get-Burned-PT-5

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03137381?term=ctp-543&rank=3

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03137381?term=ctp-543&rank=3
Reading this report, you agree that use of Art Doyle research is at your own risk. In no event will 


you hold Art Doyle or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by 


any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a recommendation or 


solicitation to buy or sell any securities.  


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision 
with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to Art Doyle that you have sufficient 
investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. 
You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person 
unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  


Conflict of Interest Advice: You should assume that on the publication date of this report, Art 
Doyle has a net short position with respect to the shares (and/or options, swaps, and other 
derivatives related to the shares) of the issuer discussed in this report. Therefore, Art Doyle 
stands to profit in the event the issuer’s share price declines, and may incur investment losses if 
such issuer’s share price increases, following the date of this report. This report, therefore, 
specifically emphasizes negative aspects of the issuer that Art Doyle believes have not been 
properly reflected in the share price of the issuer. Art Doyle may buy, sell, cover or otherwise 
change the form or substance of its position in the issuer in its sole discretion at any time. Art 
Doyle disclaims any obligation to notify the market of any such changes in advance.  


This research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, 
assessments, beliefs, views, and opinions of Art Doyle prepared with respect to, among other 
things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer may faces and the potential 
impact of those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well 
as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital markets, 
market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions 
may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and 
uncertainties beyond Art Doyle control.  


This research and report expresses Art Doyle opinions, which have been solely based upon 
publicly available information, as well as inferences and deductions through our research and 
analytical process. Art Doyle believes all factual information contained herein to be accurate and 
reliable, and has obtained such information from public sources believed to be accurate and 
reliable. However, the issuer may possess or have access to information that materially differs 
from the information presented herein.
The only table you need to see comparing Aclaris and Concert JAK inhibitor dermatology programs: 


Topic 
ACRS  


Aclaris Therapeutics 


CNCE  
Concert 


Pharmaceuticals 


Has regrown hair in humans NO, still in Phase 1 YES 


Company owns entire molecule (all 
rights, all indications) 


NO, only licensed derm 
applications from RIGL; 


owes milestones and 
royalties 


YES 


Lead molecule based on compound that 
has sold billions 


NO YES 


Lead molecule based on compound 
known by every dermatologist in the 
world 


NO YES 


Company has partnered other 
compounds from platform with major 
pharmaceutical companies 


NO YES 


Completed and published dose ranging 
oral Phase I 


NO YES 


Company will have Phase 2 data first in 
alopecia areata 


NO YES 


Lead molecule based on compound that 
has proven safety and has been used on 
thousands of people 


NO YES 


Lead molecule based on compound that 
has already demonstrated TOPICAL proof 
of concept in humans in vitiligo and other 
skin diseases 


NO YES 


Lead was never abandoned during 
development 


NO:  RIGL abandoned drug 
after phase 1 


YES 


Enterprise value $510MM $90MM
Now that we have your attention, let’s dig into some of these topics a little deeper: 


1) CTP-543 predecessor grown hair before?  Concert Pharmaceutical’s CTP-543 is a deuterated form 


of Incyte Pharmaceutical’s Jakafi also known as ruxolitinib.  It is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is 


used clinically currently as a form of chemotherapy in polycythemia vera and myelofibrosis.  It, 


along with a  couple other drugs that belong to the class of drugs known as JAK inhibitors, has 


been shown somewhat surprisingly to regrow hair in patients suffering from alopecia areata.  So 


Aclaris thought they were pretty smart when they licensed a patent from the University of 


Columbia that covered the indication of alopecia areata for ruxolitinib.  ONE BIG PROBLEM FOR 


ACLARIS INVESTORS:  CTP-543 has its own composition of matter and thus isn’t part of the 


University of Columbia patent.  If it isn’t Jakafi, it isn’t covered and Concert’s compound isn’t 


Jakafi.  So yes, the base compound for CTP-543 has regrown hair.  Aclaris’ JAK inhibitors have not. 


2) Aclaris doesn’t own the whole compound?  Aclaris tried to do some clever things when they did 


this licensing deal with Rigel.  They say the deal is ‘exclusive’ and ‘worldwide’.  They even rename 


the compounds to make it sound like they are Aclaris compounds ‘ATI-50001’ and ‘ATI-50002’.  


But this isn’t the case at all.  This is from the September 9, 2015 press release announcing the 


deal: 


Keywords here to look for are ‘for the treatment of alopecia areata and other dermatological 


conditions.’  Yes, Rigel keeps the rest.  And you, the ACRS shareholder get to pay Rigel the 


whole way:  upfront, milestones and royalties (RIGL’s enterprise value is WAY lower than 


ACRS’—did you ever think you invested in the wrong company?).   


3) CNCE has some heavyweight partners?  Yes.  They just sold an asset to Vertex for $250 million 


($160 million upfront and $90 million in milestone payments) and if you believe some on the 


sellside that asset is about to become part of a bidding war before it closes.  They also have an 


asset partnered with Jazz, another with Avanir and yet another with Celgene.  They are a 


partnership machine.  Why?  Because their drugs are legit.  Who does ACRS partner with?  No 


one. 


4) CNCE is going to be first with Phase 2a data in alopecia areata?  Yes, by a mile.  They already 


started their trial and have a massive head start.  You can check out the protocol here.  One or 


two academic sites on there that ACRS probably thought were their friends (ahem…Columbia).  


And it isn’t just that they will be FIRST.  They will be first with TRUSTED data from a compound 


that people understand.  Jakafi is known to everyone.  It’s trusted.  Which brings me to another 


point… 


5) Rigel ABANDONED “ATI-50001” in 2012 after its own Phase 1 trial?  Aclaris has gone through 


great lengths to conceal the identities of the compounds it actually licensed from Rigel.  Why the 


secrecy guys?  We put some pieces together and think we have some answers for you.  And these 



http://www.jakafi.com/

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rigel-and-aclaris-therapeutics-international-sign-license-agreement-for-jak-inhibitors-to-treat-skin-disorders-300139687.html

http://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/rigel-and-aclaris-therapeutics-international-sign-license-agreement-for-jak-inhibitors-to-treat-skin-disorders-300139687.html

https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03137381?term=ctp-543&rank=3
answers might explain the secrecy.  Buried in two of Aclaris’ S-1 amendments are two identical 


statements that probably should have been redacted but weren’t.  Here is the statement: 








So what is the big deal?  They left something in there about R548?  Well it allows you to connect 


the dots to the May 5th Aclaris announcement that their Phase 1 trial with ATI-50001 where they 


say, “These data are consistent with results from an earlier Phase 1 clinical trial in 44 healthy 


volunteers conducted by Rigel Pharmaceuticals”.  This means that according to our findings, ATI-


50001 *IS* R548 since this was the ORAL JAK inhibitor compound that had the most advanced 


clinical work at Rigel according to Rigel’s disclosures.  The Phase 1 clinical trial Aclaris refers to 


then took place in 2011.  Which is why Aclaris investors might want some answers as to why this 


popped up just one year later: 





6. What about intellectual property and failed topical approaches to alopecia areata?  Aclaris and 


Rigel inked their deal on the abandoned Rigel compounds in September 2015.  It would appear 


that Aclaris was going to try to develop their own partially licensed drugs while trying minimize 


competition by acquiring what they thought was valuable intellectual property.  Aclaris investors 


bought this story that somehow Aclaris was in the lead.  Well, in May 2016 all that changed when 


Concert Pharmaceuticals comes out with CTP-543 which is a deuterated (improved) form of Jakafi.  


Concert has the composition of matter for Jakafi, so it doesn’t need the Columbia patent that 


Aclaris thinks is so valuable which covers the alopecia areata application of Jakafi.  Tough luck.  


And while we are on the subject of Jakafi, look what the company that makes and sells Jakafi 


(Incyte Pharmaceuticals) just told us about how well topical JAK inhibitors work in alopecia areata: 








Yes, you read that right.  Aclaris licensed partial rights to compounds 


from Rigel that Rigel had abandoned long ago.  Did Aclaris disclose that 


they had been discontinued?  Why they had been discontinued?  Of 


course not.  Why were they discontinued after Phase 1?  Rigel had 


PLENTY of money to go to Phase 2. 


What are ‘good reasons’ to stop a program after Phase 1?
That’s correct, one of the drugs that we KNOW works for alopecia areata when taken orally does 


NOT work when taken topically.  This completely wipes out multiple of Aclaris Therapeutics’ 


developmental programs.  They believed topical was the way to go.  Mind you, their abandoned 


programs from Rigel had never grown hair in the first place!  So not only do you have that risk but 


you have the transition to topical risk to worry about.  Concert, meanwhile, is doing the right thing 


and validating the oral approach and keeping its options open on topicals. 


Finally, Let’s review this wart/SK hydrogen peroxide thing one more time: 


 ‘Seborrheic Keratosis’ WARTS 


Concentration of H2O2 40% 45% 


Which means… Less powerful MORE powerful 


…doesn’t that mean? Less dangerous MORE dangerous 


But you are gonna use it? In the doctor’s office 
Give it to the patient to take 


home 


And aren’t most patients? Adults Kids 


How dumb does ACRS 
management think investors 


are? 
VERY DUMB EXTREMELY DUMB 





This entire hydrogen peroxide program is a JOKE.  Get out while you still can.  December is just around 


the corner…   


Stay tuned for Part 3 where we share our derm survey.  We gave derms 


who aren’t paid by Aclaris ACTUAL clinical data on this hydrogen 


peroxide program.  And we can tell you exactly how badly this launch is 


going to BOMB (if it ever happens).
