Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


AMD – The Obituary 
Viceroy analyze CTS Labs’  report exposing fatal security vulnerabil ities across AMD products   


CTS Labs, a cyber-security research firm, released its findings on www.amdflaws.com. These findings 


demonstrate that AMD’s key products, and it basis for profitability and growth, the EPYC and Ryzen processors, 


contain severe and pervasive security flaws that put users and organizations at an unacceptable and damaging 


risk. We understand that these flaws are difficult, some practically impossible, to patch.  


We believe that AMD was compelled to release products as quickly and cheaply as possible as it was falling 


behind its competitors. This has led to what appears to be complete oversight or negligence of security 


fundamentals of AMD’s products, which promote an evidently misguided competitive advantage – particularly 


with its Secure Processor (a.k.a. Platform Security Processor or PSP) – of providing “the greatest peace of mind 


on every AMD product.”1. Nothing could be further from the truth.  


Viceroy, in consultation with experts, have evaluated CTS’s report. We believe the issues identified by CTS are 


fatal to AMD on a commercial level, and outright dangerous at an international level.  


In light of CTS’s discoveries, the meteoric rise of AMD’s stock price now appears to be totally unjustified and 


entirely unsustainable. We believe AMD is worth $0.00 and will have no choice but to file for Chapter 11 


(Bankruptcy) in order to effectively deal with the repercussions of recent discoveries. 


▪ AMD must immediately stop selling its Ryzen and EPYC processors –The identified vulnerabilities in AMD’s 


EPYC and Ryzen processors give hackers the ability to entrench malware at the hardware level, making them 


virtually undetectable and untouchable by security products. By abusing these vulnerabilities at the Secure 


Processor level, malware characteristics can give hackers unlimited control over entire networks. None of 


the vulnerabilities identified by CTS, both firmware and hardware, require physical access to computers to 


be exploited. The continued sale of these processors puts customers at significant risk. AMD must cease the 


sale of Ryzen and EPYC chips in the interest of public safety.  


- The security protocols that AMD has been promoting to server customers are rendered useless in light 


of vulnerabilities identified by CTS – We expect AMD cloud customers including Microsoft Azure, Baidu, 


DellEMC and TenCent will flee in the short term given the serious nature of chip flaws. AMD is unlikely 


to be trusted in this space again. We understand that one user could essentially compromise entire cloud 


networks (i.e. all data from all customers). 


- Just one Ryzen chip could endanger an entire enterprise network – Vulnerabilities identified in the 


Ryzen chip allow hackers to perform credential dumps on infected Ryzen work stations even if latest 


security mitigations are employed. Malware can quickly spread to other work stations throughout 


enterprise networks, regardless of whether they use a Ryzen chip or Intel. No prudent CISO or CTO will 


risk their network or their security by buying a Ryzen chip over more secure competitors. 


- AMD’s flawed chips are components in government and defense products – AMD is pushing Embedded 


Ryzen and EPYC chips into government and defense industries – from aerospace through to enterprise 


servers and laptops – through promotion of “advanced security” of its Secure Processor – the very 


Secure Processor which CTS has found to be fundamentally flawed and open to hacking.  


▪ Negligent outsourcing in quest for superior margins – In an apparently desperate attempt to compete with 


Intel, AMD has outsourced its Chipset, a central system component, to ASMedia and integrated it into its 


Ryzen PC, white-labeling it as AMD. According to CTS, a perfunctory security audit of the chipset would have 


discovered manufacturer backdoors. Manufacturer backdoors are extremely dangerous and for that reason 


not found within any competitor’s products. ASMedia’s parent company, AsusTek (TPE:2357), recently 


settled FTC charges alleging its home routers and cloud services were insecure and put customers at risk. 


The settlement requires AsusTek’s security program be subject to independent audits for the next 20 years. 


It is astounding that AMD would even consider engaging AsusTek to produce vital security components. 


                                                                 
1 https://www.amd.com/en/technologies/security  



http://www.amdflaws.com/

https://www.amd.com/en/technologies/security
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Either AMD failed to perform a satisfactory audit of its outsourced product, or simply ignored warnings 


and potential repercussions to its customers.  


▪ Vulnerabilities are difficult to patch if patching is possible at all. Product recalls are warranted – CTS 


identified a number of vulnerabilities at the hardware level (“logic gates2”) which may be not patchable. 


From discussions with experts: in the most optimistic of scenario it will take AMD many months to patch 


vulnerabilities on its devices. If AMD fails to find a workaround almost instantly, we believe a full recall in 


the interest of public safety would be necessary and enforced if need be. The Product Safety Commission 


has the power to force cessation of sale and obtain orders for product recall if the product if deemed to 


“present a substantial product hazard”.  


- AMD appears to have lied about its patches before – In December 2017, AMD reluctantly provided a 


patch to disable the Secure Processor following severe pressure from the cyber-security community, 


who were suspicious of locked-down closed source software. Contrary to AMD’s description of the 


patch, CTS found the patch only partially disables the Secure Processor: it remains vulnerable to 


attackers even when “disabled”.  


▪ Extended investigations – We expect a litany of negative news, as additional vulnerabilities emerge through 


further scrutinization of AMD products. CTS’s report shows some of these vulnerabilities to be elementary 


failures. Now that CTS has sent their findings to major cyber-security firms, including AMD customers, it is 


likely that additional vulnerabilities will be identified which AMD will also have to address. Given AMD’s 


apparent total lack of fundamental security capabilities, we expect that vulnerabilities will extend across 


AMD’s GPU product lines. 


▪ Regulatory and legal issues may exacerbate problems for AMD – While cybersecurity regulation is still in 


its nascent stages, it is becoming an increasingly important issue for company boards and management 


teams. This includes heightened scrutiny by the SEC, who recently released guidelines on timely 


cybersecurity disclosure following Spectre and Meltdown issues. Homeland security have also recently 


outlined proposals to integrate vetting of cyber-risks to the Government supply chains. We believe that 


AMD’s misleading representation of the security of its products have a wide host of potential regulatory 


and legal repercussions, including but not limited to product liability issues, warranty protections, and false 


advertising, which may all lead to various fines and lawsuits. 


▪ The CTS report is fatal to AMD growth story – Ceasing sales and recalls would lead to unprecedented losses 


and limited cash to service debt and fund the research and development. AMD investments in research and 


development are already significantly lower than both Intel and Nvidia, and also spread across both CPUs 


and GPUs.  


▪ Management have been cashing out – Since November 2016, AMD’s CEO has sold over 2.8 million shares 


of AMD, amounting to ~US$30 million, on the open market. In total, the management team has sold over 9 


million shares of AMD since November 2016. Not one member of AMD’s management acquired one stock 


in the open market for over a year. Viceroy perceive this as a red flag, where management do not think 


AMD’s prospects are as rosy as portrayed to investors.  


We believe AMD’s numerous vulnerabilities and seeming general disregard for basic security protocols make 


their products beyond unpurchaseable and outright dangerous. Viceroy’s consultants advise that it would be 


blatantly irresponsible for any Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) or Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”) 


to justify the purchase of AMD’s products.  


As the product lifecycle of AMD’s older products wind down, AMD’s profitability is entirely reliant on the success 


of Ryzen and EPYC, particularly in light of the volatility of the crypto-currency mining market which we believe 


to be the major driver of AMD’s GPUs. We believe that demand for Ryzen, EPYC and other AMD’s products will 


be non-existent, AMD will no longer be profitable and riddled with massive liquidity issues and we do not believe 


there is hope for recovery. 


                                                                 
2 https://www.coursera.org/learn/build-a-computer/lecture/Aqrh6/unit-1-3-logic-gates  



https://www.coursera.org/learn/build-a-computer/lecture/Aqrh6/unit-1-3-logic-gates
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


AMD’s CEO, Lisa Su, in a recent interview with CNBC, commented that “when we have 


high performance processors, security is job one”. AMD has evidently failed job one. 


In light of CTS’s discoveries, the meteoric rise of AMD’s stock price now appears to be totally unjustified and 


entirely unsustainable. We believe AMD is worth $0.00 and will have no choice but to file for Chapter 11 


(Bankruptcy) in order to effectively deal with the repercussions of recent discoveries. 














Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation.
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


Introduction 
This report is a financial analysis as to the impact these vulnerabilities will have on AMD as a company and as 


such will rely heavily on the contents of CTS’ report. 


We understand that CTS are not at liberty to disclose certain information about the technical vulnerabilities in 


full detail for security purposes. Such disclosure would risk providing hackers with the information needed to 


exploit AMD’s customers, potentially causing irreparable damage and risking threats to national security. We 


note again that all of CTS’ findings, including those details not published here, have been validated by 


independent third parties provided to government agencies and major security experts, including Microsoft. 


We note that it is possible that hackers have already identified these vulnerabilities and as such may already be 


sitting undetected and unreachable on systems that have a Ryzen or EPYC CPU.  


Through consultation with cyber security experts, we understand that many aspects of the findings in CTS’ report 


were shocking, including: 


▪ The sheer number of vulnerabilities that CTS discovered in such a short time;  


▪ The scope of security issues associated with the vulnerabilities in the products;  


▪ The fact that a number of the vulnerabilities would not exist had AMD followed basic cybersecurity 


principles; and  


▪ The existence of vulnerabilities which should have been caught by even a cursory security audit.  


The vulnerabilities that CTS identified have major repercussions for the following AMD product lines: 


▪ Ryzen Workstation 


▪ Ryzen Pro 


▪ Ryzen Mobile 


▪ EPYC Server 


Together, the Ryzen and EPYC chips have total addressable markets of US$49 billion. This is far greater than 


AMD’s graphics and semi-custom segment, with a total addressable market of US$15 billion. This is represented 


in Figure 1 below as the combined PC and datacenter segments, contrasted with the Immersive segment 


 
Figure 1 Extract from AMD FY2017 Investor Presentation3 


These product lines compromised by the newly revealed are AMD’s most important 


product with the largest total addressable markets. 


                                                                 
3 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/bdd95d7a-a689-487b-8da5-8bc3cdbacf5c  



http://ir.amd.com/static-files/bdd95d7a-a689-487b-8da5-8bc3cdbacf5c
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


Product Overview 
Viceroy believes much of the current positive market sentiment around AMD is due to the rapid growth and 


implied future performance of their Ryzen and EPYC product lines. We believe that the CTS revelations will 


kneecap AMD’s acceptance in these markets. 


The (un)Secure Processor 
AMD’s Secure Processor is the foundation of its promotional drive claiming state-of-the-art security, and a major 


selling point for its EPYC and Ryzen products. A flawed Secure Processor means a completely flawed security 


system, which will be unacceptable to customers. 


The CTS report identifies a number of vulnerabilities on AMD’s Secure Processor itself that give an attacker full 


control of the Secure Processor, and therefore, full control of the entire security system.  


Even more worrying is that the inclusion AMD’s Secure Processor is not limited to Ryzen and EPYC. AMD has 


already introduced – and continues to introduce – its highly flawed Secure Processor into other products, 


substantially increasing the potential for additional hacking attacks.  


 
Figure 2 Extract from AMD Secure Processor release announcement 


Simply put: AMD’s poor execution of its most important hardware has given hackers ability to exploit all of its 


customers’ systems and networks.  


Hardware security has become a top priority for customers due to the increasing sophistication of cyber-


attackers’ arsenals. This Secure Processor has become a key selling point for both EPYC and Ryzen. 


Following the Spectre and Meltdown attacks, many saw an opportunity for AMD to assert itself as the industry 


leader in providing the most secure chips. AMD’s Secure Processor was seen as the “knight in shining armor”.  


Hackers attempted to manipulate Intel’s Management Engine, the equivalent to AMD’s Secure Processor, for 11 


years, and were only able to finally disable the engine in December 2017, and over the past 12 years, they only 


found one vulnerability and only through physical access to the hardware. CTS were able to remotely take full 


control of AMD’s Secure Processor in less than 7 months4.    


                                                                 
4 https://www.blackhat.com/docs/eu-17/materials/eu-17-Goryachy-How-To-Hack-A-Turned-Off-Computer-Or-Running-
Unsigned-Code-In-Intel-Management-Engine.pdf  



https://www.blackhat.com/docs/eu-17/materials/eu-17-Goryachy-How-To-Hack-A-Turned-Off-Computer-Or-Running-Unsigned-Code-In-Intel-Management-Engine.pdf

https://www.blackhat.com/docs/eu-17/materials/eu-17-Goryachy-How-To-Hack-A-Turned-Off-Computer-Or-Running-Unsigned-Code-In-Intel-Management-Engine.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


Ryzen 
AMD’s Ryzen product is key to an AMD strategic goal of relevant in the PC market, as it represents a far higher 


quality offering than the AMD 7th Generation APU.  


The Ryzen release was among the most significant drivers of increasing sales and gross margins for AMD in 


FY2017, and is expected to continue to be a significant driver in FY2018, particularly with the ramp up Ryzen 


Mobile, which should push up ASPs and the winding down in sales of the old generation products. 


As can be seen below, the Ryzen desktop and Ryzen Mobile are geared towards the premium market. 


 
Figure 3 Extract from AMD FY2017 Investor Presentation5 


Marketing materials for the Ryzen PRO heavily emphasize its security; particularly to the high-margin enterprise 


market: 


 
Figure 4 Extract from AMD Ryzen Pro presentation 6 


EPYC  
The EPYC chip was launched with great fanfare in June 2017 and heralded AMD’s re-entry to the server market 


after a decade. The launch included presentations from AMD’s new server customers, including HP, Microsoft 


Azure, Baidu, Tencent and Dell EMC. 


                                                                 
5 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/bdd95d7a-a689-487b-8da5-8bc3cdbacf5c  
6 https://www.slideshare.net/pertonas/amd-ryzen-pro 



http://ir.amd.com/static-files/bdd95d7a-a689-487b-8da5-8bc3cdbacf5c

https://www.slideshare.net/pertonas/amd-ryzen-pro
Viceroy Research Group 7 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 5 Extract from AMD EPYC release announcement7 


The total addressable market for servers is huge and growing, and also has the highest potential gross margins 


of any of AMD’s business segments. AMD recently announced the launch of EPYC Embedded and Ryzen 


Embedded, which it hopes to bring to networking, storage and industrial solutions markets, with AMD stressing 


that these include the on-chip security.8 This is very worrying, considering the ultra-sensitive nature of these 


targeted markets and industries, includes defense and aerospace.  


AMD described the Secure Processor’s role for the EPYC chip as “An EPYC LEAP FORWARD in Security”:  


 
Figure 6 Extract from AMD webpage “Datacenter workloads” 


The importance of this security to EPYC customers is evident from this slide presented by Dell at the EPYC launch 


and from white papers published by AMD customers including as Dell. 


 
Figure 7 Extract from AMD EPYC release announcement9 


Security is the largest concern for the server market and for cloud providers in particular.  





                                                                 
7 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/3fc34d2c-ec46-4dd0-8db7-74389fb72779  
8 https://www.amd.com/en-us/press-releases/Pages/amd-launches-EPYC-embedded-2018feb21.aspx  
9 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/3fc34d2c-ec46-4dd0-8db7-74389fb72779  



http://ir.amd.com/static-files/3fc34d2c-ec46-4dd0-8db7-74389fb72779

https://www.amd.com/en-us/press-releases/Pages/amd-launches-EPYC-embedded-2018feb21.aspx

http://ir.amd.com/static-files/3fc34d2c-ec46-4dd0-8db7-74389fb72779
Viceroy Research Group 8 viceroyresearch.org 


Vulnerabilities 
Due to the security risk of publishing execution details of the vulnerabilities, the descriptions contained in CTS’s 


report of AMD are limited to their findings. The full vulnerabilities have been validated by independent third-


parties with extensive experience in the cyber-security industry. Below is a list of the vulnerabilities and a brief 


description of their mechanism of action. 


 
Figure 8 Extract of CTS report 


Note that three of the vulnerabilities; Masterkey, Ryzenfall and Fallout, are associated with the AMD processors. 


The fourth vulnerability, Chimera, is a result of a glaring oversight in the manufacture of the Ryzen chipset. 


Viceroy’s commentary on AMD will be more specific to the impact of CTS’s findings on a commercial level. Please 


see CTS’s report for greate detail on the specifics of the vulnerabilities: 


www.amdflaws.com 


We have annexed the summary segment of the above flaws highlighted by CTS in this report.  


Masterkey 


 
Figure 9 Extract of CTS report 


The Masterkey fault consists of three vulnerabilities which allow attackers to bypass the AMD-specific Hardware 


Validated Boot (HVB) mechanism, through which the Secure Processor first boots up the computer. Masterkey 


leverages the Secure Processor’s privileges to wreak havoc on target computers. 



http://www.amdflaws.com/
Viceroy Research Group 9 viceroyresearch.org 


Ryzenfall  


 
Figure 10 Extract of CTS report 


Ryzenfall’s most concerning impact is its weakness in allowing hackers to engage in arbitrary code execution on 


the Secure Processor, essentially allowing an attacker to execute any command of their choice on a target Ryzen 


or Ryzen Pro Secure Processor.  


 
Figure 11 Extract of CTS report 


Fallout 


 
Figure 12 Extract of CTS report 


We have detailed the nature and impact of the vulnerabilities in the HVB under the Masterkey section above, 


however the boot loader Fallout vulnerabilities further highlight the crippling security oversights in the design 


and implementation of AMD’s EPYC server processors. 


 
Figure 13 Extract of CTS report 


Chimera 


 
Figure 14 Extract of CTS report 


Chimera differs from the other three vulnerabilities discovered by CTS as its involves the use of a manufacturer 


backdoor. CTS’s report claims that this is due to AMD’s use of ASMedia-manufactured chipsets all of which have 


displayed the same glaring inclusion of manufacturer backdoors. 


Readers will note that hardware manufacturers such as Apple have historically objected to the introduction of 


backdoors in a finished product even under pressure from the FBI10.  


AMD’s Ryzen and EPYC appear to have backdoors built in. 


                                                                 
10 https://www.apple.com/customer-letter/  



https://www.apple.com/customer-letter/
Viceroy Research Group 10 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 15 Extract of CTS report 


Practical implications from identified flaws 
As the three vulnerabilities named Masterkey, Ryzen and Fallout all affect the Secure Processor, the possible 


implications for customers can be devastating. 


We note the following slides from a recent AMD video advertising their embedded processors, which stresses 


AMD’s security capabilities again and again11:  


 
Figure 16 Extract from AMD YouTube video12 


Attackers can access data for every customer on a cloud provider’s server 
One of the key attractions of AMD’s EPYC chip for cloud providers is AMD’s Secured Encrypted Virtualization 


(SEV).  


By encrypting the customer’s virtual machines to which an administrator or hacker does not have access, the 


goal of the SEV is to protect customers by ensuring that a hacker, untrusted Hypervisor, or even a rogue 


administrator would not be able to read the actual underlying data. In essence, access to data is segregated and 


gated in order to prevent unauthorized access.  


Customers of cloud providers are extremely concerned about the security of their customers’ data and the risk 


of their data being accessed or manipulated by an unauthorized party. AMD created the SEV to allay these fears. 


                                                                 
11 https://www.amd.com/en 
12 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwERyyABKdY  



https://www.amd.com/en

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kwERyyABKdY
Viceroy Research Group 11 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 17 Extract from AMD Virtual Memory Encryption presentation13 


AMD’s SEV is entirely managed by the Secure Processor. As a result, the promoted security features of AMD’s 


SEV is compromised and useless, giving hackers access and total control over every customer’s data that is stored 


by the cloud provider. 


The vulnerability of AMD’s Secure Processor to Masterkey, Ryzenfall and Fallout 


vulnerabilities renders SEV useless  


Attackers can easily spread throughout the network 
Generally speaking, the first computer hacked in a network is regarded as a “low-value target”. A key objective 


for an attacker is to move within the network to a “high-value target” (i.e. CEO’s). 


Microsoft developed Windows Credential Guard to stop “credential dumping”, a key mechanism used by 


attackers to spread through a network through credential theft.  


The vulnerabilities in the Secure Processor allow hackers to perform credential dumps regardless of Windows 


Credential Guard. Once these credentials have been obtained, attackers are free to move about the entire 


enterprise network. 


This also means that just one workstation with a Ryzen or EPYC chip within an enterprise network is potentially 


at risk, even if they remainder of users are on more secure Intel chips. 


The vulnerability of AMD’s Secure Processor to Masterkey, Ryzenfall and Fallout 


vulnerabilities renders Windows Credential Guard useless.  


Attackers achieve persistency and full control 
A key attack vector is the first few moments after the processor has started up, during which many security 


protocols are not yet active. AMD’s Secure Processor verifies itself upon startup essentially giving it the highest 


level of privilege in the system. Any malware present on the Secure Processor is nigh-untouchable by the 


majority of security protocols. This ability to install malware that can remain undetected and out of the reach of 


anti-virus software is known as “persistency”14. 


                                                                 
13 http://www.linux-kvm.org/images/7/74/02x08A-Thomas_Lendacky-
AMDs_Virtualizatoin_Memory_Encryption_Technology.pdf  
14 https://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/white_papers/b-
advanced_persistent_threats_WP_21215957.en-us.pdf  



http://www.linux-kvm.org/images/7/74/02x08A-Thomas_Lendacky-AMDs_Virtualizatoin_Memory_Encryption_Technology.pdf

http://www.linux-kvm.org/images/7/74/02x08A-Thomas_Lendacky-AMDs_Virtualizatoin_Memory_Encryption_Technology.pdf

https://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/white_papers/b-advanced_persistent_threats_WP_21215957.en-us.pdf

https://www.symantec.com/content/en/us/enterprise/white_papers/b-advanced_persistent_threats_WP_21215957.en-us.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 12 viceroyresearch.org 


According to CTS the Masterkey and Ryzenfall vulnerability allows hackers arbitrary code execution on the 


Secure Processor, essentially hijacking the security center of the processor.  


AMD has essentially given hackers the keys to the kingdom, giving them unfettered control over a workstation 


and/or network. The AMD user would not even know that they have been hacked.  


The vulnerability of AMD’s Secure Processor to Masterkey, Ryzenfall and Fallout 


vulnerabilities renders AMD’s Secure Boot process useless.  


Attackers are free to engage in ransomware and hardware Destruction 
Once a hacker sits on the Secure Processor, the hacker can introduce any code it wants, and can hijack the 


system at will and ransom it. 


AMD Secure Processor’s vulnerabilities mean that hackers could compromise a large number of systems that 


have the Ryzen or EPYC chips and hold them for ransom.  


Victims would be under incredible pressure to pay a ransom if they find that a large number of their workstations 


are being hijacked. Readers will be familiar with ransomware from the recent attacks using Wannacry15. Once in 


control, a hacker is also able to “brick” the machine by introducing bad code that can physically destroys the 


machine. 


Implications of Chimera 
According to CTS, the effects of Chimera are fairly different to those of the Masterkey, Ryzenfall and Fallout 


vulnerabilities. This is due to the role of the chipset and the role in the connection of a computer’s peripherals 


including USB host controllers, SATA and PCI Express as well as its links to the computers access to LAN, WIFI 


and Bluetooth. 


CTS suggests Chimera vulnerabilities would allow an attacker to: 


 
Figure 18 Composite extract from CTS Report 


AMD has failed to detect and fix deeply flawed code from ASMedia which contained manufacturer backdoors in 


hardware (ASIC) and backdoors in firmware which allow a hacker to read and write memory to the chip.  


Experts were shocked to find that the AMD chipset integrated with Ryzen PCs contained all the manufacturer 


backdoors in hardware (ASIC) and in firmware that had been present on previous ASMedia chips dating back to 


2012. 


                                                                 
15 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WannaCry_ransomware_attack  



https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WannaCry_ransomware_attack
Viceroy Research Group 13 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 19 Extract of CTS report 


Viceroy believes that AMD outsourced this component to ASMedia because only ASMedia and Intel have the 


intellectual property to design USB 3.1 controllers, which are in high demand due to a large increase in speed 


compared to the USB 3.0 controllers.  


All new Ryzen and Ryzen Pro PCs will be bundled with a compromised chipset that 


controls the peripherals. 


ASMedia: a history of vulnerabilities 
ASMedia is 41% owned by ASUSTek Computer (ASUS), a publicly-listed company in Taiwan, which produces 


computers under the ASUS brand. In February 2016, ASUS settled FTC charges that alleged its home routers and 


cloud services were insecure and put customers at risk. The settlement required ASUS to establish and maintain 


a comprehensive security program subject to independent audits for the next 20 years16. The FTC commented 


that they weren’t just unhappy about ASUS's bogus security claims, but it’s also unhappy with the company's 


response time17. 


It is astounding that AMD would even consider outsourcing such an integral component of 


their security features from ASUSTek. 


In light of the FTC’s imposed audits and the poor reputation around security practices at ASMedia, customers 


should expect that AMD had conducted extensive security audits of ASMedia’s chipset and code before 


integrating with Ryzen to ensure that no vulnerabilities exist, particularly considering that AMD slaps its own 


name on the chipset, using ASMedia as a private label supplier.  


Through consultation with experts, Viceroy understand that the manufacturer backdoors were so glaring that 


any cursory security audit would have identified the vulnerabilities within hours. CTS was able to identify these 


flaws from the machine code. 





                                                                 
16 https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2016/02/asus-settles-ftc-charges-insecure-home-routers-cloud-
services-put  
17 https://thehackernews.com/2016/02/asus-router-security-hack.html  



https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2016/02/asus-settles-ftc-charges-insecure-home-routers-cloud-services-put

https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/press-releases/2016/02/asus-settles-ftc-charges-insecure-home-routers-cloud-services-put

https://thehackernews.com/2016/02/asus-router-security-hack.html
Viceroy Research Group 14 viceroyresearch.org 


All this leads us to question the presence of the backdoors: 


1. Does the presence of these obvious flaws mean that AMD did not conduct sufficient security audits? 


2. If a security audit was even conducted, was the inclusion of the vulnerabilities a result of pure negligence 


by AMD’s security auditors? and; 


3. If AMD were aware of the vulnerabilities: did they look the other way out of a rush to release their 


product? 


Regardless of the answer, AMD’s Ryzen chipset is riddled with security vulnerabilities, failing Security 101. 


Key takeaways 
These products were AMD’s chance to regain a foothold in high margin PCs and the server market. But in its 


rush to reinvent itself, AMD shot itself in the foot. Intel’s security issues could have been a boon for AMD, but 


AMD’s security flaws are far, far greater.  


Viceroy believes the Masterkey, Ryzenfall and Fallout vulnerabilities will make AMD’s product non-functioning 


and fatally erode consumer trust in the short and long term. Frighteningly, AMD claims that its main benefit to 


the Aerospace and Defense sector is the fundamentally flawed Secure Processor. 


 
Figure 20 Extract from AMD webpage “Embedded Aerospace and Defence”18 





                                                                 
18 https://www.amd.com/en/products/embedded-aero-defense-solutions  



https://www.amd.com/en/products/embedded-aero-defense-solutions
Viceroy Research Group 15 viceroyresearch.org 


Patching - Can’t AMD just patch the problem? 
From consultations with experts, Viceroy understand that the collective fundamental vulnerabilities with AMD’s 


Ryzen and EPYC product lines are practically un-patchable. There are at least three parts to the patching process:  


1. Programming the patch – Programming a patch could take as little as a few days, although complex 


workarounds for hardware vulnerabilities are far more complex and could take months. While it is hard to 


anticipate the impact the patch and workarounds will have on the performance of the chip and system, a 


significant slowdown or loss of features and functionality, this will cause the chips to be unattractive to 


customers.  


2. Quality assurance – Once a patch has been programmed it will have to go through quality assurance, which 


could take more than 3 months. The reason for the long delay is that if the patch has an error, it could 


destroy the customer’s hardware.  


3. Distribution – Once the patch has passed through quality assurance, it will then be distributed to AMD’s 


OEM partners through AGESA (reference). The OEMs will then need to ensure that this patch is compatible 


with its products and will need to go through another round of quality assurance to ensure that it does not 


corrupt its customers’ products. Once this is complete, they can then distribute the patch. The BIOS update 


may need a full reboot of the system and most importantly, it would need IT administrators and individuals 


to actually update the BIOS themselves if not done so automatically. 


Within distribution, experts communicated that original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) would need to 


perform these three steps again in order for the patch to be fully implemented. During this time AMD’s devices 


would be completely vulnerable.  


For reference, a security researcher from Google’s cloud security team identified what we understand should 


have been an easily patchable vulnerability in the fTPM (Firmware Trusted Platform Module) of AMD Secure 


Processor which required physical access to execute and reported this to AMD in late September 201719. The 


patch was only distributed in mid-January (exact dates are OEM specific). 


Patching the chipset’s hardware backdoors will be very difficult because there is a design flaw in the logic gates. 


Before potentially being forced into a recall, AMD will attempt to create a workaround, but this could be very 


difficult, as blocking access to hardware backdoors could break access to USB ports or other peripherals. There 


is really no simple solution to this and a recall is highly possible, although totally impractical. 


The biggest hurdle Viceroy perceive is time. From discussions with experts: in the most optimistic of scenario it 


will take AMD many months to patch vulnerabilities on its devices.  


If AMD fails to find a workaround almost instantly, we believe a full recall in the interest 


of public safety would be necessary. The Product Safety Commission has the power to 


force cessation of sale and obtain orders for product recall if the product if deemed to 


“present a substantial product hazard”.  





                                                                 
19 https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/01/06/amd_cpu_psp_flaw/  



https://www.theregister.co.uk/2018/01/06/amd_cpu_psp_flaw/
Viceroy Research Group 16 viceroyresearch.org 


AMD patches don’t always work 
In December 2017, AMD reluctantly provided a patch to disable the Secure Processor following severe pressure 


from the cyber-security community who were suspicious of locked-down closed source software.  


In their report CTS states that contrary to AMD’s description of the patch, the patch only partially disables the 


Secure Processor. Essentially even “disabling” the Secure Processor and leaves Ryzenfall vulnerabilities in the 


CTS report open to attackers.  


 
Figure 21 Extract of CTS report 


AMD’s patch to disable the Secure Processor was evidently completely ineffective by design or by negligence. 


Regardless of which, this is just another example showing that AMD does not have the skills to operate in a 


market that requires state-of-the-art security and cannot be trusted to follow through.  


The impact: an AMD autopsy 


Regulation 
AMD’s release of products with security vulnerabilities introduces a wide range of potential regulatory and legal 


issues. While cyber-security regulation is still in its nascent stages, it is becoming an increasingly important issue 


in light of various high-profile security breaches, including Spectre and Meltdown.  


As such, regulators are introducing and implementing new pieces of cybersecurity regulation and requirements 


designed to protect consumers’ private data. The implicit goal of this new regulation is to increase the security 


within systematically important institutions and to hold companies accountable for their cybersecurity 


requirements. There have been two notable pieces of cybersecurity regulation released recently: 


1. Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulation (US) – regulation implemented by the Financial 


Services Superintendent in the US and designed to protect financial institutions. Banks, insurance 


companies and other financial services institutions regulated by the DFS are required to have a cybersecurity 


program designed to protect consumers’ private data; a written policy or policies that are approved by the 


board or a senior officer; a Chief Information Security Officer to help protect data and systems; and controls 


and plans in place to help ensure safety and soundness of the financial services industry. The first 


compliance date for this regulation was effective August 28, 2017.20 


2. Global Data Protection Regulation (EU) (GDPR) – this is regulation implemented by EU Parliament to 


protect EU citizens from privacy and data breaches. The regulation introduces penalties for non-compliance 


including fines (4% of annual global turnover or €20M) for serious infringements such as violating the core 


of “Privacy by Design” concepts. This regulation comes into effect on May 25, 2018.21 


                                                                 
20 http://www.dfs.ny.gov/about/press/pr1708281.htm 
21 https://www.eugdpr.org/key-changes.html 



http://www.dfs.ny.gov/about/press/pr1708281.htm

https://www.eugdpr.org/key-changes.html
Viceroy Research Group 17 viceroyresearch.org 


Further to this regulation, shareholder derivative lawsuits have emerged targeting a number of companies who 


are alleged to have failed to maintain proper internal controls related to data security and misleading affected 


consumers regarding breaches that had occurred22. We would not be surprised if numerous class action claims 


arise on the back of CTS’s research.  


We believe AMD’s numerous vulnerabilities and apparent lack of care for basic security protocols make their 


products unpurchaseable from the perspective of both the pieces of regulation outlined above. Simply, any 


Chief Information Security Officer (“CISO”) would be completely irresponsible if they recommended the 


purchase of AMD’s products.  


Legal liabilities 
Existing regulation would serve to augment existing laws and regulation in place that would protect consumers 


of AMD’s products. While it is currently unclear which specific pieces of regulation or legislation would apply to 


the vulnerabilities associated with AMD’s products, we believe the Company will face a number of issues 


surrounding: 


1. Product liability – A consumer’s cause of action is usually based on common law as no federal product 


liability law exists. This cause of action revolves around three types of claims: 


a. Breach of warranty: the ability to seek remedy when a product fails to satisfy express 


representations, is not merchantable, or is unfit for its particular purpose.23 


b. Negligence: the ability to seek remedy from the defendant for failing to use due care24 


c. Strict liability: the ability to seek remedy for product defect regardless of steps the manufacturer 


has taken25 


AMD passed on ASMedia’s flawed technology to customers with little in the way of due diligence or 


effective security review26,27  


2. Warranties28 – Implied warranties are unspoken and unwritten promises created by state law between a 


seller or merchant, to their customers. There are two types of implied warranties that occur in consumer 


product transactions; the implied warranty of merchantability and the implied warranty of fitness for a 


particular purpose. 


a. The implied warranty of merchantability is a merchant's basic promise that the goods sold will do 


what they are supposed to do and that there is nothing significantly wrong with them. In other 


words, it is an implied promise that the goods are fit to be sold.  


b. The implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose is a promise sellers make when their 


customers rely on their advice that a product can be used for some specific purpose. 


Based on the ease with which the vulnerabilities in AMD’s products are exploitable, we do not believe 


these products conform with the basic promise of a safe, secure product fit for use. 





                                                                 
22 https://iapp.org/news/a/cybersecurity-in-the-boardroom-the-new-reality-for-directors/ 
23 https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/breach_of_warranty  
24 http://www.courts.state.ny.us/reporter/archives/macpherson_buick.htm  
25 https://www.cozen.com/admin/files/publications/kiernan1954533.pdf?embed  
26http://www.mondaq.com/unitedstates/x/89684/Product+Liability+Safety/Developments+In+US+Product+Liability+Law+
And+The+Issues+Relevant+To+Foreign+Manufacturers 
27 https://www.kreamlaw.com/Frequently-Asked-Questions-Products-Liability.shtml 
28 https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/guidance/businesspersons-guide-federal-warranty-law 



https://iapp.org/news/a/cybersecurity-in-the-boardroom-the-new-reality-for-directors/

https://www.law.cornell.edu/wex/breach_of_warranty

http://www.courts.state.ny.us/reporter/archives/macpherson_buick.htm

https://www.cozen.com/admin/files/publications/kiernan1954533.pdf?embed

http://www.mondaq.com/unitedstates/x/89684/Product+Liability+Safety/Developments+In+US+Product+Liability+Law+And+The+Issues+Relevant+To+Foreign+Manufacturers

http://www.mondaq.com/unitedstates/x/89684/Product+Liability+Safety/Developments+In+US+Product+Liability+Law+And+The+Issues+Relevant+To+Foreign+Manufacturers

https://www.kreamlaw.com/Frequently-Asked-Questions-Products-Liability.shtml

https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/guidance/businesspersons-guide-federal-warranty-law
Viceroy Research Group 18 viceroyresearch.org 


4. False advertising29 – The FTC has responsibility for enforcing the nation's competition laws including 


protecting consumers from unfair or deceptive practices.  


 
Figure 22 Extract from FTC webpage “Advertising FAQ’s: A Guide for Small Business30 


As outlined in this report, AMD has been misrepresenting itself as a leader in security in the chipset industry 


with state-of-the-art security. Based on the sheer amount of vulnerabilities and the potential risks it exposes 


users to we believe it is clear that AMD has falsely been advertising itself as a “more secure” solution. 


Risk of recall 
A duty to recall could be imposed by a governmental directive issued pursuant to a state or regulation. One such 


entity is the Consumer Product Safety Commission, which is generally focused on children’s toys but has case-


by-case power to force cessation of sale of a product if deemed to “present a substantial product hazard”.  


Voluntary recalls by semiconductor companies are not without precedent. Intel has recalled the Pentium FDIV 


(1994) and Cougar Point (2011)31 at significant cost (US$475M and US$700M respectively). While a deep analysis 


of these two recalls is beyond the scope of this research report, the security flaws in AMD’s products far exceed 


the defects identified in Intel’s processors which necessitated a recall. 


We believe that AMD will likely have to recall its Ryzen chips given the scope and severity of the 


vulnerabilities, the lengthy period to provide patches and work-arounds, and the prospect of more 


vulnerabilities being discovered. 


The SEC 
The SEC has taken particular interest in cybersecurity recently including the release of a statement to provide 


guidance for Public Company Cybersecurity Disclosures. In the introduction, the SEC succinctly summarizes 


cybersecurity risks and their implications and explicitly highlights that: 


 
Figure 23 Extract from SEC Statement and Guidance on Public Company Cybersecurity Disclosures32 


                                                                 
29 https://www.ftc.gov/public-statements/1997/04/role-advertising-and-advertising-regulation-free-market#N_13_ 
30 https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/guidance/advertising-faqs-guide-small-business  
31 http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/cougar-point-recall-sata-6gbps,2896.html 
32 https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2018/33-10459.pdf  


 



https://www.ftc.gov/public-statements/1997/04/role-advertising-and-advertising-regulation-free-market#N_13_

https://www.ftc.gov/tips-advice/business-center/guidance/advertising-faqs-guide-small-business

http://www.tomshardware.com/reviews/cougar-point-recall-sata-6gbps,2896.html

https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/2018/33-10459.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 19 viceroyresearch.org 


These SEC guidelines are speculated to come amid scrutiny of a massive stock by sale Intel CEO Brian Krzanich 


made last fall after his company found out about – but before it publicly disclosed -- the Meltdown and Spectre 


vulnerabilities33. The SEC advised companies to disclose such incidents to investors in a “timely” manner: 


“Given the frequency, magnitude and cost of cybersecurity incidents, the Commission believes that it is critical 


that public companies take all required actions to inform investors about material cybersecurity risks and 


incidents in a timely fashion, including those companies that are subject to material cybersecurity risks but may 


not yet have been the target of a cyber-attack. 


 
Figure 24 Extract from SEC Statement and Guidance on Public Company Cybersecurity Disclosures 


We believe this language is very strong and explicitly highlights AMD’s duty to publicize these vulnerabilities as 


soon as they are made aware of them. We would also note that AMD’s management has also been heavily selling 


stock over the last year, as discussed. 


Intel’s handling of the disclosure of the exploits is now the subject of some 35 lawsuits, including a number of 


shareholder derivative lawsuits related to the CEO’s stock sales34. Some of these law suits charge that the 


disclosure of the attacks show that statements Intel made about its products or business were false or 


misleading.  


Viceroy believes AMD’s disclosures regarding its superior security are far more 


misleading and will attract similar levels of scrutiny and attack. 


Homeland Security Department – the implications for AMD / ASMedia Customers 
The Department of Homeland Security’s (DHS) Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity and Communications 


Jeanette Manfra on February 18, 2018 outlined proposals to integrate vetting of cyber-risks to the Government 


supply chains35.  


 
Figure 25 Extract of nextgov.com article “DHS to Scrutinize Government Supply Chain for Cyber Risks” 


The consequences are likely to be significant for customers of AMD and ASMedia, especially those using the 


Ryzen and EPYC product lines. 


                                                                 
33 https://www.businessinsider.sg/sec-issue-guidelines-regarding-disclosure-of-security-breaches-2018-2/  
34 http://www.businessinsider.com/35-lawsuits-have-been-filed-against-intel-over-spectre-and-meltdown-2018-2  
35 http://www.nextgov.com/cybersecurity/2018/02/dhs-scrutinize-government-supply-chain-cyber-risks/145998/  



https://www.businessinsider.sg/sec-issue-guidelines-regarding-disclosure-of-security-breaches-2018-2/

http://www.businessinsider.com/35-lawsuits-have-been-filed-against-intel-over-spectre-and-meltdown-2018-2

http://www.nextgov.com/cybersecurity/2018/02/dhs-scrutinize-government-supply-chain-cyber-risks/145998/
Viceroy Research Group 20 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 26 Extract of nextgov.com article “DHS to Scrutinize Government Supply Chain for Cyber Risks” 


Considering the vast number and diversity of AMD’s customers and the concerns relating to the backdoors, 


Viceroy believes AMD products, especially the Ryzen and EPYC product lines will be banned entirely from the 


government supply chain. The knock-on effect of this restriction to AMD customers will be significant, including 


HP, Microsoft Azure, Baidu and Dell EMC.  


Readers will be familiar with the US government ban on Kaspersky Lab products based on the suspected 


influence of the Russian government of the company. On December 12, 2017 the use of all Kaspersky Lab 


products within the US government was banned. This followed a September 13, 2017 directive to remove any 


Kaspersky Lab software from government systems within 90 days was issued. 


Viceroy believes a similar purge of AMD products from government systems will be imminent that adversaries 


of any government or entity using the AMD Ryzen or EPYC products will be open to attack by hostile entities. 


Potential Financial Impacts 
Due to the unprecedented nature of the Ryzen and EPYC vulnerabilities in scope as well as the recent nature of 


the CTS report Viceroy believes analysis of their financial impact with any resolution to be premature at this 


time. However Intel’s legal problems following the far less severe Meltdown/Spectre attacks leads us to believe 


the costs legal and regulatory issues caused by vulnerabilities to AMD will be catastrophic. 


Below is a non-exhaustive list of potential financial impacts arising from the legal and regulatory issues stated 


above: 


▪ Litigation and legal risks, including regulatory actions by state and federal governmental authorities and 


non-U.S. authorities; 


▪ Remediation costs, such as liability for stolen assets or information, repairs of system damage, and 


incentives to customers or business partners in an effort to maintain relationships after an attack; 


▪ Increased cybersecurity protection costs, which may include the costs of making organizational changes, 


deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third party 


experts and consultants; 


▪ Claims related to warranties, breach of contract, product recall / replacement, indemnification of 


counterparties; 


▪ Increased insurance premiums; 


▪ Reputation damage that adversely affects customer or investor confidence;  


▪ Damage to the company’s competitiveness, stock price, and long-term shareholder value; and  


▪ Investigation of management’s stock sales.  


Management appears highly skeptical  
AMD’s stock has risen dramatically, from US$2 per share in January 2016 to US$11.52 today, due to increased 


expectations for Ryzen, EPYC and GPUs. Despite this, AMD management’s actions appear to be highly cynical of 


the company’s ability to perform.
Viceroy Research Group 21 viceroyresearch.org 


As seen below, AMD has provided unusually clear product roadmaps for its major products, both on its website36 


and at CES 2018.37 








  
Figure 27 Extracts from AMD presentation “Roadmaps 2018 and Beyond”38 


Strangely with such as supposedly exciting future ahead, AMD’s management has been very actively dumping 


their stock. Since November 2016, AMD’s CEO, Lisa Su, has sold over 2.8 million shares of AMD, amounting to 


US$30m. In total, the management team has sold over 9 million shares of AMD since November 2016.  


Note on the graph below that the completely absent green annotations indicate an insider buy, compared to 


the red annotations denoting an insider sale. 


 
Figure 28 Graph of AMD insider trading activity 


None of AMD’s executives has acquired a single share in the open market in the 15 


months to February 2018. 


                                                                 
36 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/a63127c4-569f-4fbe-9fcf-54c24dcfa808  
37 https://www.anandtech.com/show/12233/amd-tech-day-at-ces-2018-roadmap-revealed-with-ryzen-apus-zen-on-12nm-
vega-on-7nm  
38 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/a63127c4-569f-4fbe-9fcf-54c24dcfa808  



http://ir.amd.com/static-files/a63127c4-569f-4fbe-9fcf-54c24dcfa808

https://www.anandtech.com/show/12233/amd-tech-day-at-ces-2018-roadmap-revealed-with-ryzen-apus-zen-on-12nm-vega-on-7nm

https://www.anandtech.com/show/12233/amd-tech-day-at-ces-2018-roadmap-revealed-with-ryzen-apus-zen-on-12nm-vega-on-7nm

http://ir.amd.com/static-files/a63127c4-569f-4fbe-9fcf-54c24dcfa808
Viceroy Research Group 22 viceroyresearch.org 


Creative accounting to boost management compensation 
As detailed in the FY2017 proxy statement, AMD management compensation is tied to financial performance 


and stock price. Management bonuses are based on the company’s financial performance: with 50% of the 


target bonus which consists approximately 15% of total compensation, weighted towards adjusted Non-GAAP 


net income, and another 75% based on stock price appreciation.  





 
Figures 29 & 30 Extracts from 2017 AMD Proxy Statement39 


Common sense dictate stock prices move when there are positive earnings stories, and what better way to 


flatter earnings and increase compensation than by excluding expenses? 


On January 31, 2017, AMD published its CFO commentary for its FY2016 final quarter results, including outlook 


and guidance for FY2017. As per the extract below, AMD had guided capital expenditures for the year of US$80 


million: 


 
Figure 31 Extract from AMD Q4 2016 CFO Commentary40 





                                                                 
39 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/83eeb3ba-5aed-4f7b-9a7a-0aa2e6e94bdd  
40 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/f1094ee0-ffd3-4179-ba98-f21c738f9463  



http://ir.amd.com/static-files/83eeb3ba-5aed-4f7b-9a7a-0aa2e6e94bdd

http://ir.amd.com/static-files/f1094ee0-ffd3-4179-ba98-f21c738f9463
Viceroy Research Group 23 viceroyresearch.org 


Just a few months later, on May 1, 2017, guidance was raised to US$140 million, due to the capitalization of 


production photomask sets beginning in Q1 2017:  


 
Figure 32 Extract from AMD Q4 2016 CFO Commentary41 


In its quarterly report for Q1 2017, AMD described its reasoning for capitalizing the mask costs: 


 
Figure 33 Extract from AMD Q1 2017 10Q42 


Photomasks are an essential part of the photolithographic manufacturing process. 


For all intents and purposes AMD has stripped out US$60 million of expenses from the Income Statement and 


recategorized it as capital expenditure for FY2017. As AMD emphasized in its Q1 earnings call, there is no impact 


on free cash flow. The only impact it does have is on earnings.  


The capitalization flatters AMD’s earnings in two ways: 


1. Deferring expenses – The items are only capitalized once the masks are put into production, and as 


such, any costs borne in the associated research and development will not be depreciated until the 


masks are put into production. In FY2017, AMD admitted that there is no depreciation or amortization 


charge associated with the capitalized costs. As such, AMD inflated its FY2017 earnings by US$60 million 


just from this simple change in accounting43. 


2. Spreading out the expenses – Based on the Company’s statements above, the mask costs will be 


amortized over 2 years, instead of being expensed in the year incurred. This also helps inflate AMD’s 


earnings. 


As a Credit Suisse anaylst comments, the capitalization of the photomasks is an unusual practice44, and as AMD 


itself states, it has no cash impact. The only real beneficiaries of inflating the bottom line are management. 


Pre-tax income for FY2017 was US$69 million, and so without the US$60 million reduction in expenses from this 


accounting game, which had no impact on 2017 cash flow, AMD would have made less than US$10 million. Based 


on this being an unusual practice and AMD’s opaque justification that “the Company’s product development 


process has become more predictable and thus supports capitalization,” we believe this was done solely so that 


AMD could report higher net income.  


AMD’s management has failed at securing its customers by sacrificing security for profit. It has inflated its 


earnings through accounting changes and has continued selling stock when it can. Viceroy believes AMD’s 


management decision to capitalize photomask costs was motivated by greed 


                                                                 
41 http://ir.amd.com/static-files/7cdff8d0-4a47-49c6-890d-9e98bfc653a1  
42 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/2488/000000248817000227/amd0930201710q.htm  
43 AMD Analyst Day, 16 May 2017 
44 Credit Suisse research report, 29 January 2018  



http://ir.amd.com/static-files/7cdff8d0-4a47-49c6-890d-9e98bfc653a1

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/2488/000000248817000227/amd0930201710q.htm
Viceroy Research Group 24 viceroyresearch.org 


Conclusion 
Make no mistake the AMD growth story is dead. 


▪ Dependence on Ryzen and EPYC to meet growth forecasts – Analyst forecast growth from Ryzen and EPYC 


product lines to constitute a median 76% of AMD’s revenue growth from FY2017 to FY2018, and a median 


80% of the growth from FY2018 to FY2019. To fully illustrate the importance of this growth story, the 


median CAGR from FY2017 to FY2019 excluding the growth from Ryzen or EPYC is just 2.25%.  


▪ Loss of revenue from downtime and recalls – If, as we believe, AMD is required to conduct a product recall 


and issue patches to fix the vulnerabilities detailed in the CTS report. Some of the crippling vulnerabilities 


may be practically un-patchable. Experts believe that development and distribution of limited-effectiveness 


patches will take more than 6 months, time during which Ryzen and EPYC product lines would be completely 


vulnerable. Viceroy does not believe AMD will be able to survive such a blow without extremely dilutive 


equity raises, or unreasonable levels of debt. 


▪ Legal and regulatory – Given the endemic nature of the Masterkey, Ryzenfall, Fallout and Chimera 


vulnerabilities and the limited ability of patches to remedy them, Viceroy believes an involuntary product 


recall is imminent. AMD will likely face costly and lengthy legal action such as that currently levelled at Intel 


over the Meltdown/Spectre fiasco. Coupled with financial implications, we believe AMD would prudently 


file for Chapter 11 (Bankruptcy) in order to manage this issue. 


▪ Significant reputational harm – The release of the CTS report has put an ignominious end to AMD’s 


reputation as a secure hardware provider, especially in light of the negligent nature of the Chimera 


vulnerabilities. Customers are unlikely to trust AMD again in the short and medium term 


If, as we expect, AMD fails to achieve any additional growth in Ryzen or EPYC, then AMD will be loss-making 


based on the majority of analyst models. Further we believe the financial damage caused makes AMD’s long-


term survival a rocky proposition. 


Neither the bull nor the bear case envisions the scenario that AMD is currently facing. Viceroy believes CTS Labs 


has opened a Pandora’s Box of vulnerabilities with AMD’s Ryzen and EPYC product lines: the tone of the report 


indicates that more vulnerabilities are likely to be discovered.  


In light of CTS’s discoveries, the meteoric rise of AMD’s stock price now appears to be 


totally unjustified and entirely unsustainable. We believe AMD is worth $0.00 and will 


have no choice but to file for Chapter 11 (Bankruptcy) in order to effectively deal with 


the repercussions of recent discoveries.
Viceroy Research Group 25 viceroyresearch.org 


Annexure – Impacts of AMD vulnerabilities
