© 2018 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


February 8, 2018


Special Edition
Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


J Capital Refutes MARK's 
Response to Our Report
On February 7, Remark Holdings (MARK) issued a press release in 
response to our report of February 6. We respond to each of the points 
below:


KanKan’s credit checks
MARK’s release:


J Capital: MARK claims to be a major player in credit checks, but some 
of the biggest private lenders have never heard of the KanKan credit 
platform and say they wouldn't use it if they had.


This is false. After lengthy testing of our credit product, Remark has 
been selected as a partner by large banking institutions, such as Bank 
of China, China CITIC Bank International and numerous other ma-
jor lenders as we mentioned in our previous public releases. As of Q4 
2017, Remark had completed an additional six FinTech contracts using 
KanKan credit data.


We telephoned five commercial lending officers at Bank of China and 
Citic who approve loans for individuals. None had heard of KanKan. 
All said they used their internal credit approval systems and the sys-
tem available from the central bank plus free, publicly available data. 
Four of the loan officers said emphatically that they do not use KanK-
an. The fifth said (our translation): “Our platform uses only [our own 
bank’s] system. But I have no idea where the data comes from. We have 
so many systems. I’ve never heard of KanKan but even if we used it I 
wouldn’t be able to tell you.”


Partnerships with Alibaba and Tencent
MARK’s release:


J. Capital: There is no evidence of promised partnerships with Alibaba, 
Tencent, and other Chinese majors.


Anne Stevenson-Yang 
anne@jcapitalresearch.com


+852 5223 8703
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


2


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


This is false. Remark announced a series of partnership agreements with Ali-
baba Cloud and Tencent Cloud in Q4 2016 as the releases were published both on 
MARK's websites and, Alibaba and Tencent websites respectively, and Remark 
continues to successfully execute those partnership agreements with Alibaba and 
Tencent. Furthermore, Remark increased its relationship with Alibaba through an 
announced partnership with the company's mobile unit in 2017.


It is hard to prove a negative. We continue to find no evidence of partnership but 
evidence only that Remark purchases services from Alibaba and Tencent. We 
searched for press releases from Alibaba and Tencent about partnerships with Re-
mark or KanKan. We did find that Tencent on December 30, 2016 announced that 
it had “partnered” with Remark to provide the company with cloud services and 
technical support worldwide. We did not find any announcement from Alibaba. We 
did find that Aliyun, Alibaba’s cloud company, announced that the “Remark Media” 
facial recognition tool became available in its online store on December 27, 2016. 
The Aliyun cloud website recommends the facial recognition tool, which can be 
downloaded for RMB 5.


MARK’s release:


J. Capital: MARK claims to have developed language-recognition software, web 
filtration, Big Data analysis of virtually all China's consumer records, and 3D face 
recognition, all on a historical total of USD 2.8 mln in R&D costs— roughly the 
price of a nice two-bedroom apartment on Park Avenue. They claim to manage a 
database with 2 petabytes of data and yet show no hosting costs.


In 2017 alone, Remark spent nearly $1 million just to host KanKan data in the 
cloud. KanKan provides private cloud services for customers, as well as public 
cloud services on Alibaba Cloud. Remark currently has approximately 2,000 to 
2,500 server instances on Alibaba Cloud, Tencent Cloud, Digital Ocean Cloud, Lin-
ode Cloud and Amazon Web Services AWS for data storage, archiving, indexing, 
data analysis and data services.


 ‣ We were surprised to hear that KanKan provides private cloud services. We 
telephoned the Chengdu company called Remark that advertises KanKan. 
The person who answered the phone said the company did not provide cloud 
services.  
In an earlier call to the Chengdu company, a salesperson told us that the 
company provides facial recognition technology. Customers may download 
the software or use the software that is hosted by KanKan. In that sense, 
KanKan “provides hosting services”—to itself. 


 ‣ Since we do not know what a “server instance” is, we cannot comment on
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


3


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


the company’s statement that it has 2,000-2,500 server instances. Perhaps 
MARK means “hosting arrangements.” 


 ‣ MARK clearly admits that it has not spent any money on research and devel-
opment. With 15 AI products already claimed and 15 more on the way, this is 
simply ridiculous. Needless to say, Remark has not made anyone’s list of AI 
developers. Fortune recently published its list of the top 100 firms developing 
artificial intelligence applications. No KanKan.


VIEs
MARK’s release:


J. Capital: What's more, MARK owns none of the vaunted KanKan technology that 
is driving share appreciation. The platform resides in companies owned by indi-
viduals – these companies are not MARK's VIEs – and there are no discoverable 
patent applications, contrary to the company's claims.


These claims are seriously misleading. Remark developed and controls the KanKan 
technology through a control structure common among businesses operating in 
China. Remark has established variable interest entity (VIE) partnerships with 
companies in Chengdu and Hangzhou. Alibaba, Baidu and others have similar VIE 
partnerships. Financials for Remark's VIE companies are consolidated with Re-
mark's financials, which are audited by third-party auditors. Remark is the process 
of filing patents in both China and the U.S.


Remark’s evasive response contains an implicit admission that it does not own 
KanKan. Note that the company does not say that KanKan is developed by a VIE 
controlled by MARK. It calls it “a control structure common among businesses op-
erating in China.” Then Remark goes on to say it has a VIE. But that VIE does not 
control KanKan.


Here are the facts of Remark’s Chinese structure, which investors will not learn 
from the company itself:


 ‣ Early 2015 Kankan began operations in Chengdu, China. (Source: Company 
Annual Report 2015)


 ‣ Remark’s first disclosure of an ownership structure for Kankan came in a list 
of Remark Holding Subsidiaries in a 9 November 2016 8k Filing:
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


4


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


 ‣ The company discloses CD Remark Technology Ltd. in its 2016 annual report 
as a subsidiary but not as a VIE. 


 ‣ Note that the company disclosed Bonet (Beijing) Technology Limited Li-
ability Company as a VIE as early as 2010 and stated clearly that it was con-
solidated. The Company disclosed CD Remark Technology Ltd as a VIE only 
after J Capital released its report. No third-party auditor has stated that CD 
Remark Technology Ltd. is a VIE and is consolidated. 


 ‣ KanKan’s business operations category is not restricted for foreign capital 
and therefore there is no need for a VIE. Note the company already had a 
VIE, Bonet, that could be used, should any of KanKan’s business be restrict-
ed. 


 ‣ Hangzhou ShuFeng Technology Ltd. is not disclosed at all in the company’s 
2016 annual report. It is not reported as a subsidiary, a VIE, or a consolidated 
entity. No third-party auditor has issued any statement about this company. 


 ‣ Bonai Beijing Technology Ltd, an undisclosed company owned by CTO Jason 
Wei, owns one of the key URLs for the KanKan, www.kankanapp.com.cn 


 ‣ MARK likes to compare itself to Alibaba and Baidu, but no one else does. 
Alibaba, Baidu, and other Chinese technology companies listed in the U.S. 
use VIEs for business operations that are in categories that restrict foreign 
capital. They also make exhaustive disclosures in each annual report to make 
that clear to investors in detail. MARK does not.


Name Country Owner Legal Person/Directors Established Link


Kankan 
Limited 


British Virgin 
Islands


Remark 
Holdings


Unkown 15/04/2015 Registration 


Kankan HK 
Limited


Hong Kong 
Kankan 
Limited (BVI)


Tao Kaishing 
(Remark CEO)


22/04/2015 Annual Filing 


CD Remark 
Technology 
Co ltd


成都睿码科技
有限责任公司


Chengdu , 
China


Jason Wei
(Remark CTO) 
and Xiao 
Li (Remark 
Employee)


魏宏峰 , 肖利


Jason Wei,legal 
Person, Tao 
Kaishing, 
Supervisor


魏宏峰


25/01/2016 Registration 


Website


Hangzhou 
Shufeng 
Technology


杭州数峰科技
有限公司 


Hengzhou, 
China


Jason Wei


魏宏峰


Jason Wei, 
Legal Person, 
Tao Kaishing, 
Supervisor


魏宏峰 , 肖利


15/02/2016 Registration 


Website


Kankan 
Limited 


Hong Kong 
Sino Asean 
Fudiciaries 
(HK) Limited 


Tao Kaishing, 
Jason Wei (Wei 
Hongfeng)


7/11/2016 Registration
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


5


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


Name Country Owner Legal Person/Directors Established Link


Bonai Beijing 
Technology


博耐 （北京） 
科技有限责任
公司


Beijing, China Jason Wei and 
Xiao Li 


魏宏峰 , 肖利


Jason Wei


魏宏峰


19/07/2007 Registration 


Patents
 ‣ The Company admits in rebutting our report “Remark is the process of filing 


patents in both China and the U.S.” No trademarks or patents have been filled 
to date in the United States or in China for KanKan. Remark has no legal 
ownership of KanKan operating entities or technology. 


 ‣ Tao Kai-Shing deregistered Kankan Hk Limited, the Hong Kong entity that 
is disclosed as owning or controlling KanKan in China, on December 8, 2017, 
shortly after he established a new company called Kankan Limited in Hong 
Kong. He and CTO Jason Li are listed as directors of that company. Remark 
Holdings is not visible as a shareholder. 


MARK’s release:


J. Capital: In case the shares do not appreciate, MARK's CEO and CFO have made 
loans to MARK through an investment vehicle they control called Digipac LLC. 
The USD 10.8 mln in loans paid 8.67% after year 1. We initially questioned the 
wisdom of lending money to a company wthat(sic) appears unable to generate any 
EBITDA or FCF, but, reading further, we believe this was nothing but an attempt to 
grab more options. In 2016, USD 2.5 mln in unpaid principal and interest was con-
verted into MARK shares at less than USD 2 per share (see page F-31 of the 2016 
AR).


A blatant math mistake makes this statement inaccurate. J Capital cites the 2016 
10K as its source for this statement, but neglected to add the additional $3.5 mil-
lion Senior Secured Convertible Promissory Note to the $2.5 million Senior Se-
cured Convertible Promissory Note.


Thanks to MARK for clarifying that the CEO and CTO have gained even more ben-
efit from their positions than we originally stated.


J Capital: At the time of acquisition, Vegas.com reported total bookings of USD 250 
mln but no revenue. It still has not reported revenue.


False. Had the analyst read the company's most-recent "2018 FINANCIAL GUID-
ANCE & OUTLOOK" contained in the January 23, 2018, Current Investor Presen-
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


6


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


tation, she would have seen that the company expects Vegas.com net revenue of 
between $65-$75 million with EBITDA margins of 10-13%. The company's most-
recent 10Q filing shows actual nine-month revenue for the company's Travel and 
Entertainment Segment of $43 million, which refutes the analyst's assertion that 
Vegas.com "has not reported revenue." Vegas.com is an established, successful 
20-year-old business acquired in 2015 with a long history as the premiere online 
booking service for all of the travel and entertainment opportunities related to Las 
Vegas and the immediately-surrounding areas.


We appreciate the clarification on the composition of the company’s Travel and 
Entertainment segment.


J Capital's Poor Track Record


The J Capital analyst has a lengthy and documented track record of bearish pro-
nouncements about the Chinese economy and companies, including Alibaba, many 
of which have been proven wrong. She questioned Alibaba's finances as far back as 
2014, for instance, and later recommended shorting the stock. Alibaba stock has 
almost tripled since. In 2015, she set a price target on JD.com of $23.36. The stock 
now trades at almost twice as much, even accounting for recent market turbulence.


Digital news outlet Quartz called her firm "a bearish-on-China research firm," and 
Barron's has said on multiple occasions that Stevenson-Yang is a bear on China.


Indeed, we are bearish on China, and indeed, we advise that Alibaba is a stock 
to sell, though not to short. We will refrain from pointing out how often fraudu-
lent stocks achieve intense share appreciation. We will simply point out that any 
comparisons between the tiny, reverse-merger, also-ran Remark Holdings and the 
internet behemoth Alibaba are simply absurd. 


In contrast, Roth Capital Partners analyst Darren Aftahi issued a report about Re-
mark Holdings (MARK) on January 31 headlined: "Potential Making of an AI Jug-
gernaut," where the analyst wrote, "Numerous key contract wins point to KanKan's 
potential both near and long-term," and "KanKan has access to significant data 
which differentiates its platform in our view," among the analyst's other comments.


Many sell-side firms make their money from underwriting, deals, trading, and 
other types of involvement with listed firms in which it benefits them to promote 
the firms. We cannot speak to the quality of Roth Capital Partners’ work, but our 
work is conducted on an objective and third-party basis.


Unlike most analysts, Anne Stevenson-Yang possesses no credentials as a Char-
tered Financial Analyst, much less an accountant. She claims in her official biog-
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


7


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


raphy to have started or co-founded several businesses, but there are no records 
of the dispositions of those alleged companies. The individual listed on J Capital's 
website as the "Compliance Officer" also offers no credentials or prior experience in 
that position. Like Stevenson-Yang, his prior experience appears to be in the media.


That is true, and investors should make their own decisions. Financial skills are 
very important to stock analysis. So are business skills, research skills, and an 
understanding of how the world works. Stock analysis is an interdisciplinary field, 
much like business itself, and requires a number of complementary skills. As for 
Remark Holdings, it is traded not on the strength of its financial statements, which 
have shown losses for the history of the company, but on management’s promise of 
new business. Shareholders therefore must concern themselves not with existing 
financials but with the reality behind those new businesses, and Remark has failed 
to demonstrate that there is any. 


In fact, a disclaimer in J Capital's so-called report would largely disqualify the 
firm and its principals as analysts in the United States: "You should assume that 
as of the publication date of our reports and research, J Capital Research USA LLC 
may benefit from short positions a client has in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, 
and other derivatives related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 
stands to realize significant gains in the event that the price of either declines.


J Capital is regulated as an investment advisor in good standing by the U.S. SEC.


Ms. Stevenson-Yang is welcome on her next visit to the United States to make an 
appointment in our offices and ask questions and conduct some actual due dili-
gence. However since that is not her style, the company will no longer respond to 
the unsubstantiated claims of a stock trader masquerading as an analyst.


We appreciate the invitation to meet but would have found it much more useful to 
receive communication BEFORE we published our report. Here is the email we sent 
to Remark IR the week before publication:


Dear Remark IR,


Glad to meet you by remote. I am with a small independent research boutique 
called J Capital. We cover mostly Chinese stocks long and short. Attached is one of 
our reports.


I am considering opening up coverage on Remark Holdings, and I'm very inter-
ested in the KanKan offering. I wonder if I could run a few questions by you. I'm 
happy to telephone if that's easier. Here are the questions:
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


8


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


1) Can you offer any color on the 2018 revenue projections for KanKan, like how 
much of the ~$30 million will come from selling credit records?


2) You haven't spoken about Vegas.com or Banks.com in the calls much lately. Do 
you offer any breakout on revenue growth and profit targets for those properties?


3) On Sharecare, can you share the valuation in the last round?


4) There's a funny entry in the Shanghai corporate records for Fanstang saying 
that HSW invested in 2013. I'm guessing that's a typo--can you confirm when you 
invested in Fanstang/China Branding Group? I'll attach the record in case you don't 
have it.


5) Can you provide any detail on your partnerships with Alibaba and Tencent?


6) Final thing! Could you direct me to your patent applications for Kankan? Not 
sure whether to look in China or the US or under what name and I'm sure there's 
fascinating detail in there about the technology.


Many thanks. Please let me know if I should telephone. I can be reached at [XXX-
XXX-XXXX].


Anne Stevenson-Yang


More Ownership Questions
We should clarify point 4 in the email above. When doing our due diligence on 
MARK, we checked its corporate registration documents. In doing so, we accessed 
public registration records for MARK’s Shanghai company, Fanstang. Fanstang 
was formed after MARK acquired China Branding Group in 2016 and took over the 
website.


Yet the registration documents we purchased from the commercial vendor Qixin 
have an entry showing that HSW, a MARK subsidiary, actually acquired the com-
pany in 2013. We believe there is a strong possibility that record is in error; we 
have not corroborated the information elsewhere. But we asked Remark IR to con-
firm that the record was an error and MARK has failed to provide that confirma-
tion.


Here is the portion of the Fanstang registration documents purporting to show an 
HSW Inc. investment of HKD 1 mln on February 16, 2013.
Anne Stevenson-Yang       +852 2534 7405       anne@jcapitalresearch.com


Disclaimer
This publication is prepared by J Capital Research USA LLC (“J Capital”), a US registered company. J Capital is 
regulated as an investment advisor in good standing by the U.S. SEC. This publication is distributed solely to 
authorized recipients and clients of J Capital for their general use in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
a Services Agreement and the J Capital Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Unauthorized copying 
or distribution is prohibited. If you are reading this publication without having entered into a Services Agreement 
with J Capital, or having received written authorization to do so, you hereby agree to be bound by the J Capital Non-
Authorized User Content Agreement that can be viewed here. J Capital does not do business with companies covered 
in its publications, and nothing in this publication should be construed as a solicitation to buy or sell any security 
or product. In preparing this document, J Capital did not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation and particular needs of the reader. This publication is intended by J Capital only to be used by investment 
professionals. Before making an investment decision, the reader needs to consider, with or without the assistance 
of an adviser, whether the contents are appropriate in light of their particular investment needs, objectives and 
financial circumstances. J Capital accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect, consequential or other loss 
arising from any use of this publication and/or further communication in relation to this document. 


9


February 8, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc.  (MARK US)


As for KanKan’s presentation at the World Internet Conference, there is no men-
tion of Kai-Shing Tao on the agenda, and no one answered when we telephoned to 
inquire. Chinese press reports indicate that Kai-Shing Tao did make a presentation 
about KanKan in the “matchmaking session” of the conference. It is common for 
companies to pay for speaking positions at conferences in China. 


Source: Qixin
