© 2018 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


February 6, 2018


Special Edition
Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


Mountebank
Remark Holdings (MARK US) 
May Be the Most Brazen 
Stock Promote of the Year
 ‣ No “there” there: 


Wherever we look, we cannot find a real business behind Remark 
Holdings. The company changes its business description so quickly 
that even management struggles to explain. That does not stop them 
from pushing out press releases that make wild claims for fantastic 
new technologies to come. 


 ‣ The mostly non-existent China business: 
The buying fever around MARK comes from extravagant promotion 
of a mostly non-existent artificial intelligence business in China. We 
did extensive diligence on MARK in China and found:


 ‣ MARK claims to be a major player in credit checks, but some of the big-
gest private lenders have never heard of the KanKan credit platform and 
say they wouldn’t use it if they had.


 ‣ There is no evidence of promised partnerships with Alibaba, Tencent, and 
other Chinese majors. 


 ‣ MARK claims to have developed language-recognition software, web fil-
tration, Big Data analysis of virtually all China’s consumer records, and 3D 
face recognition, all on a historical total of USD 2.8 mln in R&D costs—
roughly the price of a nice two-bedroom apartment on Park Avenue. They 
claim to manage a database with 2 petabytes of data and yet show no 
hosting costs.


 ‣ No KanKan assets: 
What’s more, MARK owns none of the vaunted KanKan technology 
that is driving share appreciation. The platform resides in companies 
owned by individuals – these companies are not MARK’s VIEs – 
and there are no discoverable patent applications, contrary to the 
company’s claims.


Anne Stevenson-Yang 
anne@jcapitalresearch.com


+852 5223 8703



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/files/0/f/3236012520/1/f_27196548308
© 2018 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


February 6, 2018


Special Edition
Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


 ‣ The “leading website” with 335 followers: 
The website that the company claims is “China’s leading source of 
Western digital content” with 28 million followers has not attracted 
new user posts since 2014 and has 335 followers on Weibo.


 ‣ All about the options:  
The real driver behind share appreciation seems to be that manage-
ment is looking to cash in on options. The CFO in particular is a very 
active seller. 


 ‣ Shady U.S. websites:  
The U.S. properties look equally dubious. They appear to be money-
losing businesses for which MARK makes big and unverifiable claims. 


 ‣ Conflicts right and left:   
The CEO and CFO lend money to MARK through their own invest-
ment company at rates over 8%, with conversion terms that price the 
shares well below market. 


 ‣ Valuation:  
On a sum-of-the-parts basis, we estimate that MARK could be worth 
USD 2.23 per share. But we think that, even if MARK were able 
to successfully exit its investment in Sharecare, it is questionable 
whether investors would receive any of the proceeds.


Share Price $ 9.25


Market Cap (mln) $ 254.65 


S/I 13%


J Cap's Valuation $ 2.23


Difference 75%


P/E N/A


Remark Holdings (MARK US)


Remark Holdings (MARK US) last 
share price in usd (blue, left) and 
volume (green, right, mln shares)


Source: Bloomberg February 5, 2018


0


1


2


3


4


5


6


7


8


9


10


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


16


Jan-17 Jul-17 Jan-18 



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/files/0/f/3236012520/1/f_27196548308
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


3


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


We can’t find 
evidence 


of the 
partnership 


with Alibaba 
that Remark 
features so 


prominently. A 
former Alibaba 


engineer 
told us the 


company does 
not share its 


database with 
third parties.


Tout


Remark Holdings is best described as a Chinese reverse merger that throws press releases against the wall and hopes something sticks. In the last four 
months, what has stuck is preposterous promises for an “artificial intelligence” 
offering, sending MARK’s share price up by close to 300% before it drooped again 
on January 30. We have done extensive due diligence in China and found the only 
accurate word in the company’s statements is “artificial.”


This grab-bag of also-ran websites started out as a Chinese cell phone sales busi-
ness that acquired rights to How Stuff Works (HSW) content in China and Brazil 
and, based on those rights, set up a couple of websites. The business never really 
worked, and the HSW China website—although still disclosed as an active busi-
ness—is now closed. 


Now the share price is being driven by hyperventilation around the “KanKan plat-
form,” an almost wholly fictional AI offering that MARK doesn’t even own. “Put 
frankly, I have never been as excited about any public investment in my career as 
that of Remark Holdings (MARK), due to its AI offering KanKan,” wrote an anony-
mous investor on a site run by Tailwinds group. The few analysts—one from that 
glue factory for sell-side analysts, Roth Capital Partners, and two private investors-
-who join the conference calls are similarly worshipful.


Buzz Word Bingo
MARK’s promotional statements include highly dubious claims about its partner-
ships.


Alibaba partnership: It is highly doubtful Alibaba has a partnership with 
KanKan. Granted, Alibaba is a huge organization, but we telephoned an 
engineer who formerly handled customer databases at Alibaba. He said that 
Alibaba does not open up its customer database to other companies and he 
had never heard of a cooperation of the type described by KanKan.


Remark says a partnership with Alibaba gives it consumer records that 
KanKan analyzes with its “big data” analytics. However, our due diligence 
casts serious doubt on this claimed partnership. The company has been 
touting that partnership since May 2016. Here is a quote from an 8-K last 
April: “Alibaba has granted us access to the data of all transactions made 
through Alibaba, primarily through Taobao, Tmall, and Alipay. This reflects 
approximately 400 million users on an annual basis.”


In the Q1 2017 call, CEO Shing Tao said:
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


4


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


“Alibaba’s Cloud also chose KanKan to support its new enterprise profile 
portion for artificial intelligence technology. The combined offering pro-
vides Alibaba Cloud enterprise customers with a comprehensive platform 
offering realtime risk insights, enterprise development analysis, investor, 
partner and customer targeting and customized data packages by lever-
aging publicly available business data in China on the macro level. This 
enterprise profile solution is expected to be made available to customers 
in the second quarter with incremental revenues begin shortly thereafter 
and increasing in the months ahead. With our partner Tencent, we are co-
developing machine learning-based predictive model, customers in a wide 
variety of verticals.”


Earnings Call Transcript | Seeking Alpha


Possibly the “partnership” means that MARK once rented space from Ali-
baba. KanKan’s website lists an address in Hangzhou that is an Aliyun (the 
cloud division) incubation center hosting a dozen small companies. But we 
visited the center and the manager told us that no KanKan or related com-
pany had been in residence there. 


When we called the KanKan Chengdu office to verify, a manager said that 
the Hangzhou address was incorrect and that the company had “almost no” 


The Aliyun incubation center. | Photo by J Capital January 2018.


We cannot 
find a private 


lender that 
has heard of 
KanKan, and 


they use credit 
records from 


the central 
bank--they 


generally do 
not pay third 


parties for 
credit data.



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4073452-remark-holdings-mark-ceo-shing-tao-q1-2017-results-earnings-call-transcript?part=single%205/17

http://www.datapeak.com.cn/contact
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


5


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


staff in Hangzhou. Yet the address is still on the website and MARK contin-
ues to claim operations in Hangzhou.


At the incubation center, a staff member at the front desk said that compa-
nies were free to rent space in the center. Four staff members we spoke with 
had not heard of KanKan or the Remark entities.


Credit screening: By Q4 of 2016, Remark said the company was performing 
credit checks based on a proprietary technology and that it could handle 
100 million checks per day. Excitement on the MARK calls about this of-
fering is at a fever pitch but conversations with private lenders turn up no 
evidence that lenders use, would use, or are even aware of MARK’s offering. 
From the Q3 2017 call: “First, quality lead acquisition; second, social credit 
score and risk management; third, social listening and loan monitoring 
and fourth, professional debt collection. This expansion allows our SaaS 
based FinTech platform to provide a complete consumer financing solution 
to our customers whether they need us to help them with one more areas 
or the entire platform to support their consumer loan business.” “Exciting 
times!” exclaimed MARK investor George Kafkarou on the Q3 call. He and 
the MARK management team dangle the possibility that KanKan will sup-
port 2% of credit decisions in this market and will furthermore help lend-
ing companies monitor loans. MARK management claims already to have 
achieved a low default rate on supported loans. 


But private lenders say this is complete nonsense. In interviews with 10 pri-
vate lenders in China, including the three largest, we found none that paid 
for credit data and we discovered only two that use any third-party private 
data, including the Alibaba Sesame Credit score. One used the Sesame Cred-
it score for marketing and customer acquisition rather than credit checks 
and was not paying Alibaba for the data. The other used the Zhixindu (“wis-
dom and credibility”) app, which provides largely the same records licensed 
financial institutions get from the central bank in a more convenient fash-
ion.


Private lenders agree that the central bank’s credit records are the most 
important source of credit data and, otherwise, each company has its own 
verification method relying on information that the applicant provides.


Said one company, “We wouldn’t buy sensitive personal data. . . If I asked 
someone to check whether an applicant is blacklisted somewhere, I wouldn’t 
pay—this time, you check for me and next time I’ll check for you.” The loan 
officer had not heard of KanKan.


The claims 
for KanKan 


are just 
preposterous-


-natural 
language 


recognition, 
big data 


analysis, credit 
checks, facial 


recognition, 
online content 


filtration-
-all in two 


years and on 
less than $3 


million!
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


6


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


Why doesn’t 
MARK own the 
company that 
is developing 


the KanKan 
platform? 


Chinese 
regulation 


would 
welcome 


foreign 
ownership.


Said another, “If I suspect the credit quality of an individual, I use the 
Zhixindu app. If we need company credit data, we have a financial services 
license and we use the central bank’s credit check system. . . I have never 
heard of something called KanKan.”


Although it is difficult to prove a negative, we have yet to find a private 
lending company that knows about the KanKan offering. 


The KanKan platform: The company cannot seem to get straight even on 
when the KanKan offering started or what it includes. That is not really 
surprising, considering that MARK does not actually own the KanKan plat-
form, nor does it appear to have any patents associated with the technology. 


Our diligence indicates minimal market awareness of this platform at best, 
and an outright falsehood at worst. The KanKan offering was started in 
2015, according to MARK, which opened the Chengdu office where KanKan 
resides January 2016. CEO Shing Tao claimed in Q3 2017 that they spent 
three years developing the KanKan technology—but that was less than two 
years after the company was founded. At that time, MARK said there were 
15 KanKan products. 


Initially, KanKan was a “Data intelligence and social media application” 
that also “aggregates social media” across Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, 
WeChat, Weibo. This assertion is difficult definitively to prove wrong. But 
we spoke with a large advertising agency and a large search engine optimi-
zation agency in China. Neither had heard of KanKan AI, and both said that 
the only way to buy clients across platforms would be to buy advertising on 
Google


A few local agencies offer malicious pop-up advertising that infects brows-
ers and therefore can be seen on multiple platforms, but the KanKan web-
sites do not offer any advertising services. We telephoned the main KanKan 
company in Chengdu to inquire about purchasing advertising, but the com-
pany did not respond or return our call.


Face recognition: In the Q4 call, Remark said it had billions of images in 
its database, which contained 2 petabytes of data. This is confusing, since 
Remark does not report costs for hosting. 


KanKan offers a facial recognition software available from the Huawei cloud 
in different formats—two are free, one costs RMB 10 per month, and one, a 
universal license for the platform, costs RMB 150,000. The KanKan Cheng-
du website displays a screen shot of a Sina video product that does not 



https://app.huaweicloud.com/product/00301-62204-0--0
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


7


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


contain the KanKan name but presumably must use KanKan. But a search 
for the product, whether on Baidu, in the Chinese iStore or in the U.S. iStore 
yields no results.


Among the use cases most actively promoted is a program that MARK says 
will “enforce food safety policy” by placing the KanKan “SmartEye system” 
in cameras in 2,000 restaurants in 2018. In Q3 2017, Shing Tao claimed a 
“multi-million-dollar contract” from a “leading solution provider in China.” 
The question is who might pay for this service. 


We spoke with the Food and Beverage Department director at a five-star 
hotel in Shanghai. He said that the city of Shanghai is providing cameras 
to five-star hotels under such a surveillance program for free. It would be 
unusual for China for the cameras and embedded technology to be paid for 
outright; China is crawling with start-up hopefuls offering all sorts of free 
technology to government agencies, from mobile ordering systems to online 
menus and inventory management services for restaurants, all in return for 
the privilege of selling advertising to the restaurant clientele. So, does the 
China Food and Drug Administration have a budget for monitoring? None 
has been publicly discussed, but it is not impossible.


We did manage to find one camera company that claims to be supplying the 
“Bright Kitchen” program, a company called Micrown. When we telephoned 
that company, a salesperson had not heard of KanKan AI.


Several types of facial 
recognition software are 
available online. Facial 
recognition software is gen-
erally bundled with other 
software and provided for 
a very small fee or for free. 
There may be some com-
panies that use KanKan’s 
system. But if you search 
“download facial recogni-
tion software” on Baidu, 
KanKan does not appear.


The porn and terrorism 
filter: In the Q4 2016 call, 
Shing Tao claimed that 
there are 100 million active 


Page from the Datapeak brochure offering web filtration. 
Datapeak is the brand name used by the company that says it is 
developing KanKan. | Screen shot by J Capital January 2018.



http://www.micrown.com.cn/index.php?route=information/article&article_category_id=9&article_id=78
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


8


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


users per day of the company’s porn and terrorism filter. But the product is 
“in the process of being launched” and does not have a name yet. It is hard 
to know what lies behind this claim. Searches on Baidu for porn and terror-
ism filters lead only to results about U.S. offerings and technologies.


The company that is developing the KanKan platform calls its system Data-
peak and does not use the KanKan name. In the Datapeak product brochure, 
the company says it has a “bad content filtration system.” A salesperson 
from KanKan Chengdu said the company was offering the filtration system 
for sale either outright, for RMB 150,000, or for RMB 10 per 10,000 filters. 
The filter runs, this salesperson said, every 5-10 seconds when installed on 
a browser. 


Maybe there is someone dumb enough to download such a tool. All online 
companies in China have taken active measures to guard against porno-
graphic and terrorist content since well before KanKan existed. Terrorism 
and pornography are both illegal in China, of course, and any search tool 
that displayed such illegal content would lose its license.


Vaulting the firewall: MARK management says that it offers international 
advertisers the opportunity to avoid China’s firewall controls on content. We 
have serious doubts about this claim. In the Q4 2015 call, the company said 
of its “relationship” with Alibaba, “By virtue of this relationship, we’ve been 
granted a dedicated line to bypass the greatest firewall that exists between 


U.S. and China, enabling us to support user 
experience across geographies and track 
user data.” 


It is unclear what this means. We under-
stand there are no services that evade the 
firewall unless it is VPN services, which 
are explicitly illegal. Even infrastructure 
services such as Akamai, the caching ser-
vice, and Cisco routers are subject to fire-
wall content restrictions and blocking. 


Fanstang: Remark claims that its Chi-
nese Fanstang site is immensely popular 
and has more than 120 mln followers. Its 
nearly non-existent Weibo following belies 
that claim. Remark does have a small of-
fice in Shanghai supporting the Fanstang 
website, with about 10 people at work when 


The Fanstang office in Shanghai. There were 
about eight people in the office around 4 
pm on a Wednesday in January. | Photo by J 
Capital January 2018.


Why would you 
pay for a porn 
and terrorism 


filter when 
displaying 


porn and 
terrorism 


content is 
illegal to begin 


with?
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


9


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


we visited. But the website 
is nowhere near the popu-
lar destination that Remark 
maintains. Fanstang has a 
rank of 16,153,480 on Alexa 
China. Visitor comments 
and posts are from 2014. In 
February 2016, press cover-
age of Fanstang claimed 128 
million followers “across all 
social media platforms,” but 
the Fanstang channel on the 
popular blogging site Weibo 
has just 335 followers and 
470,000 fans as of January 
2018.


Where are the patents?
Whether in Chinese databases 
or searching using Google Pat-
ent, no patents or patent ap-
plications are found either for 
Remark Holdings or under the 
name KanKan. In the Q3 2017 
conference call, Shing Tao said, 
“As it relates to KanKan's IP, we 
have filed 22 AI-related patents 
in Q2 and Q3 and we're building 
up our IP portfolio quickly for 
the remainder of 2017 and com-
ing 2018 to continue to be the 
leader in the AI space.” (Seeking 


Alpha transcript) 


We expect that, if such applications were made, they were likely made by private 
parties who may have a beneficial interest in the KanKan platform; no patent appli-
cations appear in Chinese databases for entities that we have identified as belong-
ing to Remark Holdings. In any case, it is remarkable to have developed 22 patents 
in three quarters. In the 2016 10-K, Remark made no reference to AI-related pat-
ents: “We have filed a provisional patent with the United States Patent and Trade-
mark Office in relation to Roomlia, and we own two patents and several copyright 
registrations related to Vegas.com. We also hold various trademarks for our brands, 
and we have additional applications pending.” (page 4)


The video platform Youku has a Fanstang channel with many 
videos available and frequent updates. But there are only 21,000 
followers. | Screen shot by J Capital January 2018.



http://alexa.chinaz.com/www.fanstang.com

http://alexa.chinaz.com/www.fanstang.com

https://jingdaily.com/big-in-china-western-celebrity-spreads-via-social-media-campaigners-fanstang/

https://jingdaily.com/big-in-china-western-celebrity-spreads-via-social-media-campaigners-fanstang/

http://i.youku.com/u/UMTY1NzM4MDQ0
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


10


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


We asked company IR about the patents but have not received a response.


Nothing owned
Among the more concerning red flags in the Remark businesses is the structure of 
the China operations. When it comes to the KanKan business, which is supposedly 
to deliver the company’s first profit and raise MARK’s total revenue by more than 
50% in a single year, MARK (including its VIEs) does not own a thing. 


KanKan is operated out of a company based in Chengdu, Sichuan that is called 
Remark and whose website connects to Remark Holdings but that was established 
only in January 2016. The company’s shareholders are two Remark executives, CTO 
Jason Wei and Xiao Li, who frequently turns up in the company equity structure 
but is not identified in company materials. Shing Tao is a board member.


We believe CEO Tao may be attempting to seize without disclosure what legal 
control of KanKan Remark shareholders may have. Tao deregistered Kankan HK 
Limited (he was acting as a director) on December 8, 2017. One month earlier, in 
November 2017, Tao registered a new company (again as a director) in Hong Kong 
called Kankan Limited.  Kankan HK Limited was owned by Remark and was dis-
closed in company fillings—inaccurately, we think--as owning Kankan in China. 
The new Kankan Limited is owned by the company secretary of Kankan HK lim-
ited, Sino Asean Fiduciaries  (HK) Limited, and the directors are Kai-Shing Tao and 
CTO Jason Wei. 


Interestingly, KanKan is hosted on two different sites, which have almost the same 
content and the same look and logo but at different URLs, one owned by the Cheng-
du company and the other by a company in Hangzhou called Hangzhou Shufeng 
Tech. This company was first disclosed in November 2016 as a subsidiary of KanK-
an Limited, registered in the British Virgin Islands. But Jason Wei is the 100% 
owner of Hangzhou Shufeng. Either Wei or Xiao turns up in the equity structures 
of at least five other companies in China, including the company in Beijing that is 
disclosed as Remark’s Variable Interest Entity (VIE), Bonet (Beijing) Technology 
Ltd.


There are many ways in which these arrangements are irregular. First, the activi-
ties of KanKan are not restricted and do not require that they be lodged in a VIE 
structure. In fact, China encourages foreign companies to establish technology de-
velopment ventures, especially in AI. MARK’s direct subsidiary could be collecting 
revenue from the KanKan business. So why is KanKan carved into two pieces and 
lodged in companies that do not belong to MARK? Neither the Hangzhou nor the 
Chengdu company is disclosed as a VIE, which means that any revenues will not 
be conveyed to MARK. Even if they are undisclosed VIE companies, Chinese VIEs 
cannot distribute hard-currency earnings to offshore entities. MARK does not own
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


11


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


KanKan. It does not even have a trademark application for the name, at least one 
we can find in Chinese databases.


Second, it is unusual for international companies operating in restricted industries 
to use VIEs as more than pass-throughs. Usually, the core staff and promotional 
activities are lodged in directly owned subsidiaries. The VIEs for companies like 
Baidu, Netease, and SINA are on-paper entities that bring in revenue for restricted 
activities and pay it out again under contractual arrangements with the foreign-
owned Chinese company. Most listed companies recognize that VIEs technically 
have no obligation to the foreign company and it is risky to have them hold impor-
tant assets.


Remark Holdings discloses two VIEs, Bonet and a company called Bowenwang 
Technology. We can find no records for a Bowenwang Technology. There is one 
company in Beijing with a similar name that offers online reading materials, but 
it is privately owned by an apparently unrelated shareholder. The website Bowen-
wang.com.cn, which Remark promoted in investor presentations until 2016 as the 
Chinese version of How Stuff Works, currently has no content.


We obtained financial records for Bonet for the years 2015 and 2016. Bonet should 
be collecting all Remark’s China revenue. But the company records show that it 
had no revenue in either year. The company did have half a million dollars in sales 
costs in 2016 and USD 2.2 mln in payables. It had just USD 117 in cash. In 2015, 
the only entry in the accounts was a credit of USD 56,000 in cash. That cash had 
disappeared in 2016.


Statements 2016


Balance Sheet  


Cash  $           117 


Accounts Receivable  $           223 


Prepayments  $      98,402 


Other Receivables  $      14,590 


Total Current Assets  $    169,638 


Fixed Assets  $        7,054 


Total Long-Term Assets  $        7,054 


Total Assets  $    176,692 


Table 1. Bonet Financial Statements 
(in USD at current exchange rate)
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


12


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


Statements 2016


Taxes Payable  $        6,535 


Other Payables  $ 2,200,591 


Total Current Liabilities  $ 2,207,126 


Total Liabiilities  $ 2,207,126 


Paid-in Capital  $    158,000 


Retained Profit  $(2,188,434)


Owners' Equity  $(2,030,434)


Total Liabilities and Shareholders’ 
Equity


 $    176,692 


Income Statement  


Business Income  $             -   


Sales Costs  $      18,678 


G&A  $    461,983 


Finance Costs  $        2,556 


Business Profit  $   (483,217)


Minus: Other Expenses  $             12 


Total Profit or Loss  $   (483,229)


Net Profit  $   (483,229)


 
“Show me the incentive and I will show 
you the outcome.” – Charlie Munger
Why would Remark’s comments about its products differ so much from the reality 
of what is now offered and what is possible? Look no further than the options and 
warrants.


Significant options have been awarded to CEO Kai-Shing Tao and CFO Doug Os-
row. In 2015 and 2016, these two were awarded option packages of about 3.05 mil-
lion shares--most of which vested immediately--at prices in the USD 4-4.50 range. 
Net gains are close to USD 23 mln. Osrow has regularly cashed in, making about 
USD 500,000 in January of this year alone. 


From the start, incentives were established to drive the stock higher. One of the 


Source: Beijing Tax Bureau records provided by Wuhan Information Credit Company 
Management Co. Ltd.
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


13


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


key members of the founding team, Jeff Arnold, received as his compensation a 10-
year option to acquire 3 million shares for himself and 1 million to allocate to oth-
ers at a strike price of USD 6.50.


Given the very recent share appreciation to over USD 11, we expect that Remark 
insiders will be cashing those options very soon.


In case the shares do not appreciate, MARK’s CEO and CFO have made loans to 
MARK through an investment vehicle they control called Digipac LLC. The USD 
10.8 mln in loans paid 8.67% after year 1. We initially questioned the wisdom of 
lending money to a company wthat appears unable to generate any EBITDA or 
FCF, but, reading further, we believe this was nothing but an attempt to grab more 
options. In 2016, USD 2.5 mln in unpaid principal and interest was converted into 
MARK shares at less than USD 2 per share (see page F-31 of the 2016 AR).


Remark is a money-losing company that is generally strapped for cash. In order to 
make its acquisitions, the company has had to borrow on perilous terms. MARK 
has USD 35.5 mln in loans outstanding that carry a coupon of LIBOR +10%--and, 
based on the financials, we think there is no way to repay this.


MARK signed a USD 20 mln purchase agreement with Aspire Capital LLC that of-
fers Aspire shares at less than USD 4.50. Aspire has similar agreements with many 
other questionable micro-cap stocks, including iPass, Viking Therapeutics, Dare 
Bioscience, Cerecor, Parker Vision, Aptose, Valeritas, and many more.


Back in the U.S.: Snake oil, Vegas, and 
bikinis
The signature of MARK’s U.S. acquisitions is the ability for executives to make 
money form the financial engineering of the deal itself, while shareholders lose. 


The businesses themselves are without exception money-losing and were acquired 
when in decline.


 ‣ Bikini.com: An e-commerce site for beach clothing but described by Remark 
as a “young-adult lifestyle vertical.” Bikini has a U.S. Alexa rank of 173,703. 
When Remark acquired the company in 2013, its parent company, Pop Fac-
tory LLC, had reported just USD 37,050 in revenue for the previous quarter 
and USD 165,099 in losses. Owners’ equity and liabilities were less than USD 
54,000. And yet MARK paid USD 2.375 mln to the couple who had founded 
Bikini.com. The money for the acquisition came from a Digipac note bearing 
interest at 6.67% in Year 1 and 8.67% thereafter and convertible at USD 2 per
Anne Stevenson-Yang              anne@jcapitalresearch.com                                  +852 5223 8703
See final page for disclaimers. 


14


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc. (MARK US)


share. The Bikini.com business has yet to report rising revenue or profit. 


 ‣ Hotelmobi: Online travel bookings. The company’s Roomlia.com site (Alexa 
rank: 7.037,611) purports to compete with Travelocity (rank: 857) and Expedia 
(rank: 158) Acquired in 2014, this company had had zero revenue the previ-
ous year. MARK acquired it for 400,000 shares of stock at the one-year anni-
versary of the merger, 500,000 warrants at USD 8, and 500,000 warrants at 
USD 12. Plus repayment of a small shareholder loan. 


 ‣ Banks.com: Banks competes with the likes of Quicken, Money Supermar-
ket, Nerd Wallet, Canstar, Policy Genius etc. and has an Alexa U.S. rank of 
250,256. This company was delisted from the AMEX exchange in 2011 when 
its share price fell too low to meet continuing listing standards. Banks had 
seen its revenue decline by more than 60%, to USD 4.4 mln in 2011. Remark 
acquired the company for just USD 300,000 then paid USD 450,000 for do-
main names added to the business. Although MARK does not disclose reve-
nue by business division, in Banks was already in fast decline when acquired 
and appears not to have been incremental to revenue. 


 ‣ IRS.com: Remark has not disclosed revenue for its set of U.S. tax sites, taxex-
tension.com, filelater.com. and irs.com. In January 2016, Remark announced 
that it would be offering tax preparation on its IRS.com URL. The principal 
model appears to be tricking taxpayers into believing that this is a U.S. gov-
ernment website and collecting fees for filing services that are free through 
the government. 


 ‣ Vegas.com: Sells air, hotel, and package tours to Las Vegas. The site has a U.S. 
Alexa rank of 5,575. Expedia, which also sells package tours to Vegas, ranks 
158. Ostensibly, this small business looked like it might be a good acquisi-
tion. But the deal was odd: in 2015, MARK paid USD 15.5 mln in cash for 
Vegas.com plus shares, warrants, and earn-outs that brought the total deal 
value to as much as USD 38 mln. Yet the company’s total market cap in 2015 
was just USD 59 mln. It had less than USD 2 mln in revenue in 2014 and had 
lost more than USD 136 mln in its time as a listed company. The company 
took a USD 27.5 mln loan form undisclosed lenders for the acquisition, and 
issued warrants to the collateral agent, a private lending company called 
MCG Investment Group. At the time of acquisition, Vegas.com reported total 
bookings of USD 250 mln but no revenue. It still has not reported revenue. 


 ‣ Sharecare: Arguably MARK’s most valuable property is its 5% holding in 
Sharecare, the online health information site that was founded by Jeff Arnold 
and Dr. Oz. Sharecare’s Alexa rank in the U.S. is 5,430, compared with Web-
MD, which ranks No. 173 in the U.S. Sharecare has raised USD 360 mln in 


Where records 
are available, 


they show 
that the U.S. 


businesses 
were in 


decline when 
acquired.
Anne Stevenson-Yang       +852 2534 7405       anne@jcapitalresearch.com


Disclaimer
This publication is prepared by J Capital Research USA LLC (“J Capital”), a US registered company. J Capital is 
registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. SEC (CRD# 290086).  This publication is distributed solely to 
authorized recipients and clients of J Capital for their general use in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
a Services Agreement and the J Capital Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Unauthorized copying 
or distribution is prohibited. If you are reading this publication without having entered into a Services Agreement 
with J Capital, or having received written authorization to do so, you hereby agree to be bound by the J Capital Non-
Authorized User Content Agreement that can be viewed here. J Capital does not do business with companies covered 
in its publications, and nothing in this publication should be construed as a solicitation to buy or sell any security 
or product. In preparing this document, J Capital did not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation and particular needs of the reader. This publication is intended by J Capital only to be used by investment 
professionals. Before making an investment decision, the reader needs to consider, with or without the assistance 
of an adviser, whether the contents are appropriate in light of their particular investment needs, objectives and 
financial circumstances. J Capital accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect, consequential or other loss 
arising from any use of this publication and/or further communication in relation to this document. 


15


February 6, 2018


Remark Holdings Inc.  (MARK US)


nine rounds of funding. However, a March round last year brought in USD 60 
mln in debt, and that was followed in May with a USD 85 mln equity infu-
sion by Summit Partners.  
 
Sharecare does not appear competitive in the health and wellness space. Its 
“Find a Doctor” functionality hardly works, as the database is small and ap-
parently neglected. Health information provides nowhere near the depth of 
information on competitors like WebMD. News reports differ wildly on the 
amount of revenue Sharecare may be pulling in. Some reports claim hun-
dreds of millions in revenue. A report on Owler from January 2018 estimates 
that the company has USD 10.2 mln in annual revenue. 
 
Valuation 
We are convinced that Remark Holdings cannot make a profit; indeed, we 
think the company is not interested in profit but only in share price apprecia-
tion to make good on the outstanding warrants and options. Try as we might, 
we are unable to figure out a reliable valuation, given the level of disclosure. 
Giving it the benefit of the doubt, on a sum-of-the-parts basis, we estimate 
that the company might be worth USD 61 mln, or USD 2.23 per share. We 
give positive valuations to Vegas.com, which appears to have package tour 
bookings, and Sharecare, and we think the Banks.com group of assets, in-
cluding IRS.com, might be worth USD 1 mln. The China business, we are 
certain, is not worth a penny.



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/ksnvgifdr3zw776joxn6ivfy30xtfg8v

https://www.owler.com/company/sharecare
