March 12, 2018 Commentary


© 2018 J Capital Research Limited. All rights reserved. This report or any portion hereof may not be reprinted, sold or 
redistributed without the written consent of J Capital. Use of this publication by authorized users is subject to the J Capital 
Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Use of this publication by non-authorized individuals is subject to the J 
Capital Non-Authorized User Content Agreement available here.


There are few frauds more cut and dried than Yangtze River Port & Logistics Co. Ltd., traded 


on Nasdaq as YRIV. Purporting to operate a large 
logistics facility at an inland shipping hub in China, 
the company actually owns a completely failed office 
park and a lot of angry customers who bought shops 
in the boarded-up mixed-use facility on the promise 
that it would fill up with other shops and shoppers. It 
did not, like so many projects around the mainland 
whose developers begged, borrowed, and connived to 
ride the China property boom.


And yet this company managed to achieve a valu-
ation of USD 4 bln on Nasdaq not long ago and is 
working hard to bring the valuation back. YRIV did 
not do this by featuring its failed property develop-
ment. This mighty Yangtze stock promotion gener-
ates excitement, and stock appreciation, by attach-
ing itself to the latest investment fads: the Chinese 
infrastructure stimulus, the Belt and Road Initiative, 
and now Blockchain. And yet the company boils 
down to a bunch of guys in Wuhan who took a punt 
on real estate, lost badly, and now face crushing debt. 
Although we feel sorry for the Wuhan investors, we 
have to wonder why U.S. regulators have enabled U.S. 
investors to help them pay for their bad investment 
decisions.


It is an obvious and well-established feature of public 
markets that investors have different perspectives on 
the growth potential and risks for companies operat-
ing in different sectors, and historic manias, be they 


 ‣ Sign of the times: Fraudulent companies 
have frequently taken advantage of reverse 
mergers, business scope redefinitions, and 
promotional announcements to raise money 
from U.S. retail investors. But the last year 
has seen some such companies swell their 
value to billions of dollars without any actual 
development in their business or even realistic 
prospects.


 ‣ Track the fads: YRIV is in many ways a 
barometer of irrational exuberance. Its share 
price has bobbed up and down with its clever 
promotion of investor enticements like the 


“Belt and Road Initiative” and “Blockchain.” In 
the manner of tilting Olympic ice racers, the 
company attaches to the draft of extremely 
hot equity fads.


 ‣ A life boat in a tidal wave of debt: The 
reason YRIV is listed is the same as that for its 
predecessor company, a developer from Hebei 
Province: the company took on too much debt 
when China’s property markets were surging, 
and now it is desperately searching for ways to 
recover cash, and more than stay alive, make 
a bundle themselves before disappearing from 
regulator radar. This suggests yet another way 
in which China’s debt problems inevitably slop 
over into other markets.


The story of Yangtze River Port and Logistics


Shell Games
 ■ Anne Stevenson-Yang


Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094 1



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/65cy7z1br7ropy1usrw1rv927z3tx1ej

https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/ksnvgifdr3zw776joxn6ivfy30xtfg8v
Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094 2


March 12, 2018


obsessed with railroads, steelmakers, or Internet 
companies, have always featured the appearance of 
companies that had no actual capability in the pro-
moted sectors but dressed themselves to take advan-
tage of investor enthusiasm.  We have seen weak 
entities of every description re-garb themselves as 
cryptocurrency and Blockchain players, and thereby 
trigger a feverish revitalization of investor interest.  


Simply put, it has become all too easy for companies 
like YRIV to change their colors without changing 
their basic nature. And the rewards for doing so are 
substantial. 


Trading places
YRIV listed via a reverse merger on 
Nasdaq in 2016, the next Chinese 
company to take a whirl in this par-
ticular shell company. The previous 
one was a highly indebted real estate 
developer named Kirin International 
from a small city in the grim, indus-
trial province of Hebei called Xingtai. 
The company seems to have been 
formed especially for ventures like 
these: the original listcos was called 
Ciglarette, a smokeless cigarette 
company that never had any real operations and 
had been formed by stock promoters the SEC later 
charged with fraud.. That is not surprising: there are 
brokers in Shanghai that work with U.S.-based bro-
kers to acquire shells like and migrate to a big board 
via an OTC listing. Shortly after Ciglarette launched 
itself in U.S. OTC markets in 2011, the Hebei devel-
oper acquired the company and changed its name 
to Kirin. The property and logistics company from 
Wuhan started taking over in 2015. It’s possible that 
Kirin and Yangtze Port knew one another from the 
outset: the chairman of YRIV is from Xingtai, and a 
key YRIV shareholder is a property developer.


In any case, by the time Yangtze River Logistics 
stepped in, Kirin International had gotten all it could 
out of the public company, with email promotions 


from Stock Publisher, Penny Stock Crew, and Stock 
Freak pumping the stock. Once it seemed that Kirin 
was not going to be driving any more price apprecia-
tion, it sold the shell to the Wuhan gang in return 
for skin in the new venture (specifically, a USD 150 
mln note convertible to shares in YRIV). Then shares 
really started rising. 


In the first wave, Kirin International saw 800% price 
appreciation in January 2015 based on the idea that 
China would build a “mega city” across southern 
Hebei Province that would elevate the price of Ki-
rin’s properties. In 2016, just after taking over Kirin’s 
shell, Yangtze Port started issuing press releases 


about the importance of the Wuhan 
port area to the Belt and Road Ini-
tiative (BRI), pushing the stock to 
around USD 5, when it had been trad-
ing for pennies. Then the overall mar-
ket fever drove the shares up, up, until 
late December, when, just as abruptly, 
the price started to fall. 


So, on February 13, YRIV filed a notice 
announcing that one of its subsidiar-
ies was using Blockchain to manage 
port logistics. That was good for a 


50% appreciation, from the USD 3 range to USD 
5.38--even though we have not been able to identify 
any port logistic operations that YRIV provides at all, 
and the local government says that it does not per-
mit private companies to handle port logistics. Yang-
tze River Development, which had traded as YERR, 
adopted a new ticker, YRIV, and announced that its 
Yangtze River Blockchain Logistics Limited subsid-
iary had been accepted into the U.S. Blockchain in 
Transport Alliance. We inquired with the Alliance 
and learned that, to join, firms merely need to pay 
a fee on a sliding scale based on revenue, of which 
YRIV has none.


The ability to drive up the stock price rests critically 
on controlling most of the shares, so that the volume 
of trading is low and a small investment can create 


The efforts to raise 
money from US 
investors to make up 
for bad investments 
in real estate display 
one way in which 
the Chinese debt 
tsunami is already 
hitting U.S. shores.
Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094 3


March 12, 2018


an optically high share price. Here is the historical 
stock chart:


Desperate 
Yangtze Port Logistics is ostensibly raising money to 
build a logistics port in Wuhan. This was originally 


“Wuhan Newport,” which is applying for approval as 
a free trade zone and now, given that the local gov-
ernment has nixed that project, has migrated down-
stream to a different port area. The company is sup-
posed to derive its principal income from service fees 
from a 1.9 mln sq m Logistics Center, for the use of 
its warehouses, ship berths, an information platform, 
cargo handling and shipment loading. Completion 


is targeted for 2021. Phase 1 is reportedly 40% com-
plete. 


But the company appears to have no business. 
Whether government officials in the port area, real 
estate agents, or employees of competitors, no one in 
the Yangluo port area of Wuhan can identify facili-
ties owned by any of the entities named in the YRIV 
reports. In fact, the Yangtze River is China's only 
navigable river and Is a critical connection between 
the Shanghai port and Pacific Ocean to the mainland 
interior all the way to the city of Chongqing In Si-
chuan. Transport has always been tightly controlled 
by the municipal entities along the route, most es-
pecially by the centrally located cluster of Wuhan, 
Hankou, and Wuchang. No private operator ever had 
a chance.


The immediate problem for YRIV seems to be its 
failed “logistics park,” called Huazhong Steel Logis-
tics Park, which is really an office development that 
lies about two miles from the Newport area. The 
park is completely deserted, unless you count a doz-
ing watchman in front. Buildings were locked from 
outside when we visited. Parking lots and entrance 
areas were overgrown, and all building surfaces were 
caked with grease and dust.


Back in 2011-12, YRIV pre-sold 443 commercial of-


Chart 1. YRIV Historical Price (USD, pink) 
and Volume (shares, blue)


Source: Bloomberg


0


0.5


1


1.5


2


2.5


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


16


18


20


2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018


The office building at the entrance to the Huazhong park. | Photo 
by J Capital, December 2017


Sales office for the project. | Photo by J Capital, December 2017
Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094 4


March 12, 2018


fices in the park, but it never completed the offices 
and has been obliged to refund the deposits with 
interest of 6%. The problem is, the company does not 
have the money to pay the refunds, and the buyers 
have been reported to protest from time to time. This 
sort of thing does not play well with city officials, 
who above all else get graded for maintaining social 
stability. 


The shops sold for about RMB 500,000 for a first-
floor prime space and RMB 350,000 upstairs. Press 
coverage says that Huazhong still owes RMB 150 
mln in refunds, which more or less accords with the 
YRIV reports. 


The port facilities, for which YRIV is trying to raise 
money, were based on the idea that “Belt and Road 
Initiative” (BRI) trade would be so voluminous that 
demand would drive up the price of logistics services. 
That has not happened. Local officials, having built 
new facilities, cannot get transshipment business 
and are trying to persuade importers of fresh fruit 
and meat to use the port. 


There is first of all the untidy fact that Wuhan is 
deeply inland, cannot easily or cheaply sail through 
the tight grip of the Shanghai International Port 
Authority. And BRI Is largely about exports. 


Given that neither real estate development nor trade 
via the BRI is unfolding quite as the company hoped, 
Yangtze River tried when it took over the YRIV shell 
to get a loan based on having this new collateral. In 
October 2016, YRIV announced a USD 1 bln loan 
from a group called Armada Enterprises and its 
affiliate, Wight International Construction. Unfor-
tunately, a quick Google search would have shown 
the YRIV team that Armada was never going to 
come up with USD 1 bln; it is owned by an eccentric 
and known fraudster named George Wight. Wight 
did not provide the capital, and the Armada shares 
were canceled on March 1, 2017. Barron’s published 
a hilarious piece on the company in November 2016, 
and Forbes followed suit in June 2017, pointing out 


Shops along the front of the commercial building. | Photo by J 
Capital, December 2017


 Photo by J Capital, December 2017


So much for the logistics park. | Photo by J Capital, December 2017



http://wh.leju.com/news/2015-04-11/08385992455375797141091.shtml

http://wh.leju.com/news/2015-04-11/08385992455375797141091.shtml

https://www.barrons.com/articles/a-chinese-infrastructure-deal-sits-on-shaky-ground-1479537680

https://www.forbes.com/sites/nathanvardi/2017/06/13/the-2-4-billion-nasdaq-stock-headquartered-in-apartment-2a/#70c44bce730c
Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094 5


March 12, 2018


that Yangtze River is headquartered in an apartment 
on John Street in lower Manhattan above a store that 
sells discounted deodorant, Pop-Tarts, and flip flops.


Owing to unpleasant people
In a way, you have to feel sorry for YRIV. It is only 
getting deeper and deeper into debt. Back when it 
was developing the office park, the company got capi-
tal from a Wuhan property developer called Renhe 
Group that itself is in distress now. Renhe has an 
office on the 19th floor of a shabby office building 
in downtown Wuhan. One floor down is the Wuhan 
headquarters of Yangtze River Logistics. 


Renhe says that it is insolvent but owns a parcel of 
land in the Gujiacun area of Wuhan and is raising 
capital to develop the land. 


YRIV may be taking money from a loan shark in 
Guangdong in order to meet basic daily needs. Ac-
cording to postings in online forums, a company 
called Cinese Group provided USD 200 mln to YERR. 
Cinese Group is a finance company based in Dong-
guan, Guangdong, China’s capital of high-interest 
lending, once dubbed by the international business 
media as the frontline of China's "wild west" economy.


Meanwhile, in a classic example of the mafia hiding 
in a church, the company has filed a complaint with 


FINRA, claiming that it has been subject to “illegal 
short-selling and market price manipulation.” 


As with the U.S. headquarters above a bodega, the 
Wuhan headquarters is a depressing place. The ele-
vator stops short of the floor, requiring the visitor to 
take an 8-inch step up into the dark hallway. Walls 
are caked with grease, perhaps from cooking oil, 
since migrant workers are using the building as a 
dorm. One floor up, at the Renhe Group World Head-
quarters, workers nap on bunks or squat on the floor 
to eat bowls of noodles while their laundry dries 
on lines strung across the room. When we visited, 
the few people who had heard of Yangtze River Port 
Logistics were visibly apprehensive; they said that 


“people from Hong Kong” came every couple of weeks 
to check on the company. It may well be that, every 
time the YRIV share price in New York ticks down by 
a couple of virtual digits, one of the company princi-
pals loses one of their 10 real ones.


In the colorful tropics of global equity 
markets
With sympathy to the many investors around the 
world who have lost money in the ups and inevitable 
downs of companies like Yangtze River Port and 
Logistics, we have to respect the ingenuity in gam-
ing public markets shown by Chinese entrepreneurs 
who are only one scant generation away from an era 
in China when capitalism was seen as demonic, and 
they did not even know what an equity market was. 
YRIV is at best a B+ player in this arena, and they 
followed a playbook developed and exploited by doz-
ens of Chinese listcos before them. So, it is important 
to ask when regulators will get some control over 
these serial frauds, and investors will return to some 
interest in ascertaining whether there is any actual 
commercial value in companies they are funding.  


Now the increased globalization of financial flows 
and the dynamism--or madness--of investor inter-
est in equities that claim to be playing in the cryp-
tocurrency and Blockchain space and the curious 
phenomenon of companies repeatedly changing 


18th floor looking toward the office. | Photo by J Capital, December 
2017



http://www.cinese.com.cn/

https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/03/06/1415944/0/en/Yangtze-River-Port-and-Logistics-Limited-Files-a-FINRA-Complaint.html
Anne Stevenson-Yang anne@jcapitalresearch.com +1 860 391 6094 6


March 12, 2018


Disclaimer
This publication is prepared by J Capital Research USA LLC (“J Capital”), a US registered company. J Capital is 
registered as an investment adviser with the U.S. SEC (CRD# 290086).  This publication is distributed solely to 
authorized recipients and clients of J Capital for their general use in accordance with the terms and conditions of 
a Services Agreement and the J Capital Authorized User Content Agreement available here. Unauthorized copying 
or distribution is prohibited. If you are reading this publication without having entered into a Services Agreement 
with J Capital, or having received written authorization to do so, you hereby agree to be bound by the J Capital Non-
Authorized User Content Agreement that can be viewed here. J Capital does not do business with companies covered 
in its publications, and nothing in this publication should be construed as a solicitation to buy or sell any security 
or product. In preparing this document, J Capital did not take into account the investment objectives, financial 
situation and particular needs of the reader. This publication is intended by J Capital only to be used by investment 
professionals. Before making an investment decision, the reader needs to consider, with or without the assistance 
of an adviser, whether the contents are appropriate in light of their particular investment needs, objectives and 
financial circumstances. J Capital accepts no liability whatsoever for any direct, indirect, consequential or other loss 
arising from any use of this publication and/or further communication in relation to this document. 


6


their claimed business scope without any support-
ing evidence of competence or success have reached 
unprecedented levels. Not only are the enigmatic 
prospects of a sector like Blockchain itself an allur-
ing factor for investors, but the ability of companies 
like YRIV is impressive to tie slickly into investor 
zeal for Blockchain and then gear it up with a story 
about China's Belt and Road Initiative, the vibrant 
Yangtze Valley growth juggernaut, and other power-
ful forces unleashed by the China Dream in order to 
lure in tides of capital.  


Investors apparently do not have time to stop and ask 
if the listed company is even operating at all, much 
less offering real promise as a Blockchain and China 
Dream behemoth. For starters, even the most sophis-
ticated U.S. regulators have not figured out how to 
deal with entrepreneurs and their listcos who have 
easy reach into U.S. markets but are out of reach 
when grossly fraudulent behaviors become manifest. 
After the fact, regulators in the U.S. or anywhere 
have little in their tool boxes to deal with deceptions 
far off in the middle of mainland China that were not 
only smokeless from the outset but totally lacking In 
any real fire.



https://jcapitalresearch.app.box.com/s/ksnvgifdr3zw776joxn6ivfy30xtfg8v
