Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Pretium Resources – digging up dirt  
Distorted grades, involvement of SEC sanctioned entit ies, and high turnover of mineral 


consultants –  Pretium fl ies many red flags. (PVG:TSX / PVG:NYSE)  


SEPTEMBER 6, 2018 -- Pretium Resources owns and operates the purportedly high-grade Brucejack gold mine in 


Northwest British Columbia in Canada. Viceroy is short Pretium Resources, as our research suggests its mining 


results have been distorted and the equity likely worthless as the overindebted company bleeds cash over the 


next 12 months:  


▪ Strathcona Mineral Services Limited (Strathcona), the mining consultancy that famously declared Bre-X to 


be a fraud, resigned from Pretium's 2013 bulk sample program later stating, “…they will not have a mine 


producing 425,000 oz. a year for the next 20 years, as they have been advertising so far”. The entire Pretium 


investment thesis rests on the validity of the 2013 bulk sample program. 


▪ After Strathcona's resignation, Pretium hired Strategic Minerals LLC (Strategic Minerals), an entity owned 


and managed by disgraced investment manager Serofim “Sima” Muroff to handle the testing of its bulk 


sample program. Muroff was charged by the SEC for securities fraud after misappropriating millions of 


dollars of investor funds and siphoning away millions more. Our research suggests that Muroff has 


knowingly assisted Pretium in overselling the quality of Brucejack Mine to investors. 


▪ The funds embezzled by Muroff were partially invested in numerous early-stage gold mining assets which 


to date have produced no gold. We believe Muroff’s entity was created to similarly distort gold grades for 


these gold mining assets. Muroff’s investors funds were also used to invest in equities and derivatives of 


other gold mining assets which we believe included Pretium. 


▪ The overwhelming majority of our research indicates Pretium manipulated the results of its bulk sample 


program through an overreliance on samples taken from the Cleopatra vein, thereby artificially inflating 


Pretium's grades and reserve projections for the Brucejack Mine. 


▪ The manipulated bulk sampling test performed by Strategic Minerals was used by the courts in Wong v. 


Pretium Resources, 2017 as the basis of their decision that the Strathcona analysis was incorrect. This did 


not exempt the company from withholding Strathcona’s preliminary analysis from investors. 


▪ Government documents indicate Pretium is moving approximately double the tonnage from the 


underground mine than disclosed to investors. This suggests reported grades and reserves are significantly 


inflated, a much greater amount of waste is being dumped into local lakes, and more explosives are being 


utilized. Pretium's operational plan has experienced dramatic changes in a short amount of time, leading us 


to believe that management is scrambling to find consistent, high-grade ore to maintain the charade that 


its debt and equity are viable. 


▪ Pretium founder and chairman, Robert Quartermain's only mine operating experience at Pirquitas, an 


Argentinian silver mine owned by Silver Standard, resulted in a ~53% reserve cut and subsequent shutdown. 


A number of Quartermain’s management team left Silver Standard to operate Pretium. 


▪ As of Q2 2018, Pretium has ~$700M of debt (excl. convertible notes) with an effective interest rate of ~15%. 


If Pretium can't make or re-negotiate the payment, then Pretium may be unable to remain a going concern. 


We believe this deadline has provided an incentive for Pretium to inflate its results through the near-term 


depletion of the Cleopatra vein and take more rock out of the ground than disclosed and planned. 


The implications of our findings on grade, tonnage and life of mine are damning and 


lead us to believe that Pretium's equity is highly likely to be worthless in its current 


state, and its credit significantly impaired. 


Viceroy believe Pretium bears striking resemblance to Rubicon Minerals, now operating as a shadow of its 


former self after revising mineral reserve estimates down ~90%.  


We believe the most likely scenario is that Pretium’s assets are seized by its secured creditors as collateral.
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Pretium or any other entity to file a report 


with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 





 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


1. Background 
Pretium’s Chairman and founder Robert Quartermain acquired the Brucejack Project (Brucejack) in British 


Columbia from Silver Standard Resources for $450M on October 28, 2010 and formed Pretium Resources lnc. 


Quartermain had previously served as President of Silver Standard Resources from 1985 to 2010. This appears 


to have been a spin-off from Silver Standard as they took 52% of the consideration in equity. 


While the Brucejack covers several mineralization zones the two most important are the Valley of Kings zone 


(VOK) and West zone.  


Snowden Mining lndustry Consultants (Snowden) was retained by Pretium in November 2012 to provide a 


mineral resource estimate for the West zone and VOK of the Brucejack Project. The November 2012 Resource 


Report estimated that the VOK contained indicated gold resources of 16.1 million tonnes at a grade of 16.4 g/t 


and inferred gold resources of 5.4 million tonnes at a grade of 17.0 g/t. 


To substantiate Snowden's resource model, Pretium retained expert mining consultant Strathcona Mineral 


Services Ltd. (Strathcona) in late 2012 to oversee a 10,000 tonne bulk sample and sample tower program.  


In October 2013, Strathcona determined that Pretium was unlikely to be able to mine more than 2.08 g/t and 


resigned before completing its work. Pretium subsequently retained Snowden to complete the bulk sample and 


sample tower program, effectively giving Snowden the opportunity to verify their own resource model. 


Snowden’s Feasibility Study and Technical Report dated June 19, 2014 asserted it believed Pretium could recover 


7.27m ounces of gold over 18 years with a proven and probable grade of 16.1 g/t. 


Snowden’s bulk sample program’s milling results were handled by Strategic Minerals, an entity owned and 


operated by disgraced, SEC-sanctioned investment manager Sima Muroff. 


This is not the first time that much of Pretium’s management would be taking investors for a ride. The Pirquitas 


mine in Argentina owned by Silver Standard under Quartermain and much of Pretium’s current management 


experienced a ~53% reserve cut following their departure. 


Our research suggests that Strathcona got it right and Snowden got it wrong. 


2. A timeline of the Brucejack bulk sample program 
"[Pretium] will not have a mine producing  425,000 oz a year for the next 20 years"  


2.1. 28th October 2010  
Pretium acquires 100% interest in the Brucejack project and other assets from Silver Standard Resources Inc for 


a total consideration of $450m comprising of $233m in cash and the remainder in equity1. 


2.2. 3rd June 2011 
Wardrop and P&E Mining Consultants release their Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment of 


the Brucejack Project. 


                                                                 
1 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2010/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Announces-Initial-Public-
Offering/default.aspx  


 



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2010/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Announces-Initial-Public-Offering/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2010/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Announces-Initial-Public-Offering/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 1 Table 1.2 Brucejack 5.00 g/t AuEq Mineral Resource Grade and Tonnage Estimate2 


Note that at this time, Brucejack refers to nine mineralization zones: the West Zone, West Zone Footwall Zone, 


Shore Zone, Gossan Hill Zone, Galena Hill Zone, SG Zone, VOK Zone, Bridge Zone and Bridge Zone Halo. 


2.3. 28th November 2011 
P&E Mining consultants releases their Technical Report and Resource Estimate on the Brucejack Project. 


 
Figure 2 Table 14.19 Combined West Zone and VOK 5.00 g/t AuEq Underground Mineral Resource Grade and Tonnage 


Sentitivity 3 


Combined measured and indicated resource tonnes increase from 3.7m tonnes to 8.6m tonnes and grade 


increases from 7.66 g/t to 19.35 g/t from the prior report. 


2.4. 3rd April 2012 
Snowden Mining Industry consultants releases their Mineral Resources Update Technical Report. The VOK and 


West zone are combined in analysis. According to the report, there was insufficient exploration in the VOK zone 


to ascertain measured resources. 


 
Figure 3 Table 1.3 Mineral Resource estimate: VOK Zone and West Zone based on a cut-off grade of 5 g/t AuEq – April 20124 


                                                                 
2 Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment of the Brucejack Project – June 3, 2011 – page 23 
3 Technical Report and Resource Estimate on the Brucejack Project – November 28, 2011 – page 110 
4 Mineral Resources Update Technical Report – April 3, 2012 – page 14
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


Combined measured and indicated resource tonnes increase from 8.6m tonnes to 13.7m tonnes and grade 


decreases from 19.35 g/t to 13.2 g/t from the prior report. 


This report is also the first mention of the multiple indicator kriging method as opposed to the ordinary kriging 


method in previous technical reports. This change was remarked upon later by an expert witness in a class action 


against Pretium which we discuss later in section 3.4. 


2.5. 18th September 2012 
Snowden release their Mineral Resources Update Technical Report. West zone estimates are dated April 2012 


and new results for the VOK zone is presented. A total Brucejack mineral resource estimate consists mostly of 


the VOK and West Zone. 


 
Figure 4 Table 1.3 Brucejack (total) Mineral Resource estimate (including VOK and West Zone) based on a cut-off grade of 5 


g/t AuEq – September 20125 


Combined measured and indicated resource tonnes increase from 13.7m tonnes to 15.6m tonnes and grade 


decreases from 13.2 g/t to 12.6 g/t from the prior report. 


2.6. 20th November 2012 
Snowden releases their Mineral Resources Update Technical Report. West zone estimates are still dated April 


2012.  


 
Figures 5 & 6 Tables 1.1 & 1.2 VOK and West Zone Mineral Resource estimated based on a cut-off grade of 5g/t AuEq – 


November & April 20126 


Combined measured and indicated resource tonnes increase from 15.6m tonnes to 21.0m tonnes and grade 


increases from 13.2 g/t to 13.64 g/t from the prior report. 


                                                                 
5 Mineral Resources Update Technical Report – September 18, 2012 – page 14 
6 Mineral Resources Update Technical Report – November 20, 2012 – page 13
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


2.7. 9th October 2013: Strathcona resigns from the bulk sample program 
In late 2012, Pretium hired Strathcona as an independent consultant to oversee a 10,000 tonne bulk sample and 


sample tower program7 for the Brucejack Mine. The purpose of this program was to verify Snowden’s mineral 


resource estimate and model.  


Strathcona is the mining consultancy that accurately declared Bre-X to be a fraud in May 19978. Strathcona 


founder, Graham Farquharson, has worked in the mining industry for over 50 years and is a member of the 


Canadian Mining Hall of Fame. 


"People have a lot of faith in Strathcona because they’re very blue chip and they’re very conservative. 


When they get worked up, it’s a big thing”  


- Greg Ho Yuen, former partner at Fasken Martineau9. 


On October 9, 2013, Pretium announced Strathcona had resigned from the program, however, the initial press 


release failed to explain why. 


 
Figure 7 PRETIUM RESOURCES INC.: BULK SAMPLE UPDATE10 


2.8. 22nd October 2013: Strathcona’s resignation letter: no mineral resources 
On October 22, 2013, Pretium disclosed the results from the first cross-cuts of the bulk sample and more 


information on Strathcona's departure. 


 
Figure 8 PRETIUM RESOURCES INC.: FIRST BULK SAMPLE CROSS-CUT PROCESSING RESULTS 


Strathcona's preliminary identified grade of 2.08 g/t was 87% lower than the 16.4 g/t grade indicated in 


Snowden's November 2012 Mineral Resources Update Technical Report. In the press release, Pretium disclosed 


only parts of Strathcona's resignation letter: 


 
Figure 9 PRETIUM RESOURCES INC.: FIRST BULK SAMPLE CROSS-CUT PROCESSING RESULTS 


The distinction between mineral reserves and resources is important: reserves represent economical viable ore 


                                                                 
7https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-First-Bulk-Sample-Cross-Cut-Processing-
Results/default.aspx 
8 https://money.cnn.com/1997/05/05/companies/brex/  
9 https://business.financialpost.com/commodities/mining/pretium-shares-plunge-30-5-as-independent-consultant-resigns  
10 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Update/default.aspx  


 



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-First-Bulk-Sample-Cross-Cut-Processing-Results/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-First-Bulk-Sample-Cross-Cut-Processing-Results/default.aspx

https://money.cnn.com/1997/05/05/companies/brex/

https://business.financialpost.com/commodities/mining/pretium-shares-plunge-30-5-as-independent-consultant-resigns

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Update/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 7 viceroyresearch.org 


ln the 2017 case Wong v. Pretium Resources11 more parts of Strathcona's resignation letter were disclosed as 


evidence. These excerpts include comments by Strathcona that allege overestimation of gold grade in the bulk 


sample area and Pretium's refusal to disclose material information to their investors. 


                                                                 
11 Wong v. Pretium Resources, 2017 ONSC 3361
Viceroy Research Group 8 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figures 10, 11, 12, 13 & 14 Extracts from Wong v. Pretium Resources 


Pretium has never released Strathcona's resignation letter in full to stakeholders. The excerpts above contain 


further explanations about Strathcona's conclusions, warnings about Pretium's inability to mine and produce 


gold - Pretium's investors have been deprived of material information. 


Ultimately the court ruled that Pretium was right based on the mill results of Snowden’s bulk sample12. 


 
Figure 15 Extract from Wong v. Pretium Resources 


The circumstances of the mill results are highly suspect: the October 2013 press release identified Strategic 


Minerals as the operator of the mill, an entity associated with disgraced investment manager Serofim “Sima” 


Muroff. Strategic Minerals and its background are discussed in more detail below. 


We attempted to obtain further information from Strathcona and were only able to learn that it does not wish 


to become involved again with Pretium. We believe that Strathcona may be bound by a confidentiality 


agreement. 


As a result of Strathcona's resignation, Snowden took over Strathcona's remaining responsibilities for the bulk 


sample program. This essentially left Snowden in a position to confirm the validity of their own mineral resource 


model. 


2.8.1. Dr Dominy’s brief cameo 
On the same date the reason for Strathcona’s resignation was announced, Pretium also introduced new 


consultant, Dr. Simon Dominy, stating he would analyze: 


"…the sample theory underlying Strathcona's sampling protocols for the sample tower and will be 


providing a formal expert opinion to Pretivm".  


Pretium touted Dr. Dominy’s credibility in the press release and its language seemed to imply that Dr. Dominy's 


assessment would support Snowden's sampling methods over Strathcona's:  


                                                                 
12 https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2e0a69b5-360b-44d7-a0c7-00d8bddc3588  



https://www.lexology.com/library/detail.aspx?g=2e0a69b5-360b-44d7-a0c7-00d8bddc3588
Viceroy Research Group 9 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 16 PRETIUM RESOURCES INC.: FIRST BULK SAMPLE CROSS-CUT PROCESSING RESULTS 


Dr. Dominy was never mentioned again in any Pretium press release, conference call, filing, or presentation nor 


was his "formal expert opinion" was never disclosed to the street. We believe Dr. Dominy’s conclusion regarding 


Brucejack’s resource model was not in line with Snowden’s. 


In his May 2017 paper “Underground bulk sampling, uniform conditioning and conditional simulation - unrealistic 


expectations?13” Dr. Dominy published a case study on Brucejack. 


 
Figure 17 Reconciliation - Underground bulk sampling, uniform conditioning and conditional simulation - unrealistic 


expectations? 


Following Dr. Dominy’s reference, we see 2 images which indicate that the bulk sample relied heavily on the 


Cleopatra vein.  


In the first image, the thin blue line (the Cleopatra vein) progresses south before turning east at 6257975 N. The 


yellow shaded bulk sample area seems to follow this path: progressing south from 6258000 N and also wrapping 


east at 6257975 N.  


ln the second image, red stars denote "visible gold". More gold appears to be visible in the image (higher density 


of red stars) along the same path where the Cleopatra vein is outlined in the image above. 





                                                                 
13https://www.researchgate.net/publication/316285936_Underground_bulk_sampling_uniform_conditioning_and_conditi
onal_simulation_-_unrealistic_expectations  



https://www.researchgate.net/publication/316285936_Underground_bulk_sampling_uniform_conditioning_and_conditional_simulation_-_unrealistic_expectations

https://www.researchgate.net/publication/316285936_Underground_bulk_sampling_uniform_conditioning_and_conditional_simulation_-_unrealistic_expectations
Viceroy Research Group 10 viceroyresearch.org 





Figures 18 & 19 FIG 3 - Underground development for the VOK BSP: location of bulk sample development, Geological 


The Dominy case study further substantiates our assertion that Snowden oversampled the 615L and 615E areas 


as evidenced by the outsized composite assay masses in the table below compared to the relevant area’s total 


composite mass.
Viceroy Research Group 11 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 20 TABLE 4 FSE for BSP sample composite lots at a range of dL values.14 


The fact that Dr. Dominy's formal expert opinion was not publicly disclosed is strange but predictable given 


management’s proclivity for marketing Brucejack as a high-grade, high-output, high-yield mine.  


2.9. 22nd November 2013: Snowden claims it found much more gold than Strathcona  
One month after the October 2013 press release, Pretium disclosed the results of Snowden's bulk sample 


program. 5,865 oz of gold were said to have been produced from 10,302 tonnes of milled material, resulting in 


a grade of 17.7 g/t, 8.5x better than Strathcona's 2.08 g/t sample tower grade and in line with Pretium's 2012 


Resource Report grade of 16.4 g/t15. Pretium's stock appreciated 82% following the announcement. 


Octupling your mineral resource grade from the same sample over the space of a month defies reason. 


The difference of opinion between Strathcona and Snowden/Pretium now appears to be based on sampling 


method. 


Strathcona used a small sample for analysis (called a sample tower) while Snowden and Pretium used the results 


from the entire 10,000 tonne bulk sample. Strathcona apparently disagreed with the Snowden approach 


because as it relied very heavily on a thin and rare high-grade vein in the VOK called the Cleopatra vein. 


 
Figure 21 PRETIUM RESOURCES INC.: FIRST BULK SAMPLE CROSS-CUT PROCESSING RESULTS 


If a producer claims that the amount of gold in the high-grade vein is indicative of the amount of gold in the 


entire deposit, then investors are misled into believing the company will be producing much more gold in the 


                                                                 
14 Underground bulk sampling, uniform conditioning and conditional simulation - unrealistic expectations? - I Clark and S C 
Dominy 
15 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Processing-Totals-5865-
Ounces-of-Gold/default.aspx  



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Processing-Totals-5865-Ounces-of-Gold/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Processing-Totals-5865-Ounces-of-Gold/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 12 viceroyresearch.org 


future. Including a significant part of the Cleopatra vein in the sample tested effectively inflated the bulk sample's 


result. 


Strathcona defended its extensive use of the sample tower in estimating mineral resources in its resignation 


letter, asserting that the sample tower consistently reflected results within a reasonable margin of error to the 


bulk sample tests. 


 
Figure 22 Extract from Wong v. Pretium Resources 


To test Strathcona's criticism of the Snowden approach, we reviewed Pretium's own map of the area tested. The 


map of the bulk sample area reprinted below, shows the bulk sample area (yellow with hash lines) intersecting 


directly with the cleopatra vein (red – added by us).  


It is clear that the Cleopatra vein was drilled and emphasized in the crosscuts. The yellow intersection striking 


the Cleopatra vein in the purple square (added by us) is much wider: 


 
Figure 23 VOK 1345L bulk sample with stopes  


Page 155 of the 2014 Feasibility Study illustrates the grade of these crosscuts16 under different names as detailed 


in figure 24 below. The 615E XC cut is named as 426615E and 615L remains the same. Thus, the overemphasis 


on the Cleopatra vein accounts for the significant "increase" in gold claimed by Snowden. 


None of this was planned, or so Pretium claims. However the “Cleo North” and “Cleo South” raises (denoted by 


a slim dark blue line), indicate the presence of the high-grade Cleopatra vein, were not included in planned 


drilling for the bulk sample area layout as laid out in a December 2013 Mineral Resources update. We have 


highlighted the oversampled 426615E and 615l area in black in the figure below. 


                                                                 
16 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC JUNE 19, 2014 – page 155
Viceroy Research Group 13 viceroyresearch.org 





Figure 24 Planned (top) versus actual completed (bottom) bulk sample area layout on the 1345 m level, VOK deposit17 


Once the location of the vein was known it would be fairly simple to oversample that area and report a higher 


average grade for the Brucejack area. For illustration, removing the 426615-E and 615L samples results in an 


average gold grade of just 3.19 g/t from the other cross-cuts. 


This high variance of gold grades in the Brucejack zone was evidenced in a 2011 preliminary economic 


assessment performed by Wardrop and P&E Mining consultants. Unlike the Snowden and Strathcona studies, 


the 2011 Wardrop assessment evaluated the entire Brucejack area, not just the Valley of Kings zone. 


 
Figure 25 Brucejack Summary Composite Statistics by Domain18 


                                                                 
17 Mineral Resources Update Technical Report December 19 2013 – page 54 
18 Technical Report and Preliminary Economic Assessment of the Brucejack Project JUNE 3, 2011 – page 154
Viceroy Research Group 14 viceroyresearch.org 


The VOK scores extremely highly compared to the other areas in sample variance of gold composites, range 


between the minimum and maximum figures and mean gold grade. 


From the evidence presented so far, the Cleopatra vein’s results should not be extrapolated to the entire area.  


Given the evidence above we believe Pretium’s strong Q2 2018 performance and the company’s assertions of 


this performance as “steady-state production” to be highly questionable. Keep in mind Pretium will need to 


actively seek investment in order to meet repayments within 6 months, we believe the company is doing its best 


groom the performance of the Brucejack mine in a way that disagrees completely with several studies of the 


deposit. 


In light of this information, Viceroy believe Strathcona’s resignation appears well justified given Pretium’s non-


disclosure of this data to the market. 


2.10. 27th November 2013: Graham Farquharson defends Strathcona in 


Northern Miner interview 
Five days after Snowden's bulk sample results were released, Graham Farquharson of Strathcona gave an 


interview with mining news website Northern Miner wherein he shared more information about Strathcona's 


conclusions19. 


In the interview, Farquharson stated that: 


▪ The bulk sample was skewed by the presence of the Cleopatra vein. 


▪ Pretium repeatedly refused to disclose material information (negative sample tower results) to its investors. 


▪ “…they will not have a mine producing 425,000 0Z. a year for the next 20 years, as they have been advertising 


so far”. 


The implication of this is significant: Farquharson believed there may be far less gold at Brucejack than what 


Pretium is advertising. [Emphasis added] 


The Northern 
Miner 


To start, do you have any comments about the bulk-sample results? 
 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


Those results were what we were anticipating: 4,000 oz. gold production from the bulk 
sample, based on the tower sampling results. It's not any surprise. All the sample rounds 
that we took out of the development workings and so on — those were up to the grades 
that would work out to in excess of 4,000 oz. in the bulk sample. 
 


The Northern 
Miner 


If you were in agreement on that, why did you leave the project? 
 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


We gave a lengthy letter to Pretium with our reasons for withdrawing. I think some of the 
lines from that letter were made public. But the main item was that we found the bulk-
sample program, which was composed of [underground drilling, underground geological 
mapping and the results of the sample tower].  
The main objective of that was validation of the resource model that Snowden had 
prepared in November 2012.  
That was the basis the feasibility study that Pretium did in June of this year, which suggested 
it was going to a big mine producing 425,000 oz gold a year for the next 10 years, within a 
22-year mine life.  
All that was based on the Snowden model, which had 16 million tonnes with a grade of 
16 grams per tonne in the indicated category and a further quantity in the inferred 
category — and we didn’t find that.  
And Pretium didn’t find that — when they did all the underground drilling and geological 
mapping and the results from the sample tower, and so on — so we told them on several 


                                                                 
19 http://www.northernminer.com/news/strathconas-farquharson-responds-to-pretiums-bulk-sample-result/1002752061/  



http://www.northernminer.com/news/strathconas-farquharson-responds-to-pretiums-bulk-sample-result/1002752061/
Viceroy Research Group 15 viceroyresearch.org 


occasions that they should be alerting the world that the resource model was not panning 
out. The whole objective of the bulk-sample program was to confirm whether or not the 
resource model was valid, and we said it wasn’t. 
 


The Northern 
Miner 


If the resource model had been valid, how many ounces should there have been in the bulk  
sample? Is it correct to say you believed 4,000 oz. was a low number? 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


Not quite, because what did happen in the bulk-sample program is that a new vein was 
discovered called the “Cleopatra” vein. It's a narrow vein but high grade, and a different 
geological occurrence than what was anticipated. The Cleopatra vein is not something that 
would be mined using bulk-mining methods, at 2,700 tonnes a day and so on. It's high-
grade material, but it's a narrow vein that you could only mine at a slow rate.  
The good grades in that vein do not substantiate or corroborate the initial resource model, 
which was based on big dimensions, big stopes and the grade of 16 grams per tonne. 
 


The Northern 
Miner 


So, you don’t think there are enough veins similar to Cleopatra to make what happened in 
the bulk sample normal in terms of a mine at Brucejack? 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


No, because they planned for 16 million tonnes. Which is a lot of tonnes at that high grade 
of 16 grams per tonne in the indicated category in the resource model. The drilling and the 
mapping and the bulk sample and so on did not find that. 
 


The Northern 
Miner 


Where did the error come from? We know that this is a very heterolithic deposit with lots of 
nugget effect — do you have an idea of how Snowden came up with those numbers that you 
think are so incorrect? Is it the nature of the deposit? Is it the methodology that they're 
using? 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


It's the methodology, and we pointed that out. It's the interpolation method that they use, 
and of course they disagree with us. The big challenge with that project has always how 
far do you extract the latent values from the high-grade assays that are scattered 
throughout the deposit. It's a difficult assignment, knowing how far to extrapolate those 
spectacular assay results.  
We told Pretium that, from all the drilling they’ve done — and it's a heck of a lot of drilling 
— and with the sample-tower results and so on, none of those come anywhere close to 
finding a grade of 16 grams per tonne, which is what allows bulk-mining methods. 
 


The Northern 
Miner 


One would assume that the overall grade of a bulk sample would be a more comprehensive 
test than a sample tower. but what you're saying is that the bulk sample happened in this 
instance to get skewed by the presence of the Cleopatra vein. 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


The [sample tower and bulk sample] will agree in the end, and they agree with the 
underground drilling that they did and that we agreed on, but it is not representative of the 
rest. 
 


The Northern 
Miner 


If you were suddenly in charge of the project, what would you think is the correct path 
forward from here? It's obviously an interesting gold occurrence. 
 


Graham 
Farquharson 


Yes, and we told them that it has an excellent chance of being a small-tonnage, high-grade 
mine in the Cleopatra vein, and a couple of other similar occurrences that they found in 
the last drilling program. If they lined all those up, there's an excellent chance that they 
could have a small-tonnage, high-grade gold mine. But they will not have a mine producing 
425,000 oz. a year for the next 20 years, as they have been advertising so far.  
We're not saying there's no gold there — this is not Bre-X or anything like that. There is gold 
there, but the project needs a much different geological model now, based on the work 
that's been done and the bulk-sample program being different than what they anticipated 
before they went underground.
Viceroy Research Group 16 viceroyresearch.org 


And they've been slow to accept that, because it does make a big change from what they've 
been telling the markets. But we're absolutely convinced that if this is what the results 
indicate, then you should tell the world. 





As a key takeaway, note that Farquharson does not dispute (and in fact, anticipated) the significant grades 


obtained in the bulk sample program. The major issue to note that these results cannot be duplicated to the 


extent advertised, as the Cleopatra vein is non-heterogenous.  


2.11. 24th March 2014: Witness in class action lawsuit agrees with Strathcona's 


conclusion 
ln March 2014, a putative class action was filed in federal court in the Southern District of New York alleging that 


Pretium misrepresented the value and amount of gold in its property. In that document, expert witness Dr. 


Robert Cameron shared Strathcona's conclusions: 








 
Figures 26, 27 & 28 Yeo et al v. Pretium Resources Inc20 


Cameron also took issue with Snowden’s use of multiple indicator kriging to model the VOK zone. 


 
Figure 29 Yeo et al v. Pretium Resources Inc 


                                                                 
20 Case 1:13cv-07552-VSB Document 54 Filed 07/23/14
Viceroy Research Group 17 viceroyresearch.org 


We believe that the overwhelming evidence against Pretium and Snowden’s resource model speaks for itself 


especially when viewed in the context of Strathcona’s resignation. 


2.12. 19th June 2014 – Revised Feasibility Study 
Tetra tech releases its Feasibility Study and Technical Report with mineral resource estimates by Snowden using 


VOK data dated December 2013 and West Zone data dated April 2012. 


 
Figures 30 & 31 VOK and West Zone Mineral Resource Estimate21 


This was the last mineral resource estimate and no mention was made of Strathcona’s objection in the 


document. 


Combined measured and indicated resource tonnes increase from 21.0m tonnes to 23.5m tonnes and grade 


increases from 13.64g/t to 14.75g/t from the prior report. 


Since the June 2011 mineral resources estimate, measured and indicated grades increased 93%, tonnage 


increased 451%, and gold contained increased 17%. The majority of this increase occurred within the VOK 


estimate under Snowden’s tenure as mining consultant.  


2.13. Key Takeaways 
Pretium clearly wants to communicate Brucejack as a high-grade, high-yield, high-output mine. Strathcona 


disagreed with management’s characterization of the project and Snowden’s resource model, which relied upon 


the high-grade Cleopatra vein to be indicative of the entire mine area. Pretium’s current valuation is based 


entirely upon the accuracy of the Snowden resource model.  


Viceroy’s analysis of the mine’s feasibility, supported by that of Strathcona, shows 


management’s characterization of the Brucejack mine is heavily flawed. 


For reasons we will outline below, we believe that Strathcona was correct and that Pretium is now dealing with 


the fallout of using a flawed resource model and having to deliver the corresponding results. Viceroy further 


believes that management were aware of the aggressive modelling used in the 2014 feasibility study and are 


now actively attempting to continue the Brucejack illusion for as long as possible. 


                                                                 
21   Mineral Resources Update Technical Report – December 19, 2013 – page 31
Viceroy Research Group 18 viceroyresearch.org 


3. Strategic Minerals and Sima Muroff: SEC-sanctioned individual 


managed mill to support Snowden’s resource model 
After Strathcona's resignation, Pretium hired an entity owned and managed by Serofim "Sima" Muroff to handle 


the testing of its bulk sample program; Muroff was sued by the SEC for misappropriating millions of dollars of 


investor funds. Our research indicates that Sima Muroff scammed investors and Strategic Minerals does not 


appear to have a reputable background in testing gold. 


Strategic Minerals LLC first appeared in Pretium's October 22, 2013 press release when Strathcona's sample 


tower results and parts of its resignation letter were released. 


   
Figure 32 Cross-cut 426585E Preliminary Mill Results22  


The company appears again when Pretium released Snowden's bulk sample results on November 22, 2013: 


 
Figure 33 Preliminary Mill Results from Processing23  


To summarize this series of events: 


1. Grade results were a disappointing 2.1 g/t 


2. Strathcona resigns from the bulk sample program over Pretium’s lack of disclosure to the market  


3. Strategic Minerals LLC is introduced in the press release as the processing mill 


4. Milling results from the same sample are an impressive 16.2 g/t, in line with Snowden’s resource model 


Strategic Minerals LLC appears to be a company that operated out of Contact Mill and Mining Co’s Phillipsburg 


facility, which is mentioned in the 2014 Montana Mining magazine as processing ore from Brucejack in late 2013. 


 
Figure 34 2014 Montana Mining Magazine24 


                                                                 
22 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-First-Bulk-Sample-Cross-Cut-Processing-
Results/default.aspx  
23 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Surpasses-Target-of-4000-
Ounces-of-Gold-Processing-Continues/default.aspx  
24 http://www.montanamining.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/2014_mining_magazine.pdf  



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-First-Bulk-Sample-Cross-Cut-Processing-Results/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-First-Bulk-Sample-Cross-Cut-Processing-Results/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Surpasses-Target-of-4000-Ounces-of-Gold-Processing-Continues/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2013/Pretium-Resources-Inc-Bulk-Sample-Surpasses-Target-of-4000-Ounces-of-Gold-Processing-Continues/default.aspx

http://www.montanamining.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/02/2014_mining_magazine.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 19 viceroyresearch.org 


A Freedom of Information Act request to the Department of Labour/Mine Safety and Health Administration 


uncovered that Serofim “Sima” Muroff owned and ran Strategic Minerals LLC in 2014: 


 
Figure 35 Strategic Mineral LLC company information  


3.1. Charges relating to Sima Muroff 
On April 28, 2017, the SEC charged Sima Muroff with securities fraud for raising $140.5M and misappropriating 


investor funds from his affiliated entities: Blackhawk Manager LLC (Blackhawk) and lSR Capital LLC (ISR), 


between 2010 and 201425.  


These funds were part of an EB-5 immigrant investor visa program. The funds in these investment vehicles were 


to be invested in gold mining companies26.  


Note that Ryan McDermott, Director of Mining Operations in figure 35 above was the senior geologist at ISR and 


his presence at Strategic Minerals LLC further affirms our view that Muroff used Strategic Minerals for fraudulent 


purposes.  


 
Figure 36 Drilling at Gold Hill – Idaho State Register27 


This is not the only overlap between Muroff’s ISR Capital entity and Strategic materials: several ISR employees 


were involved in the oepration and incorporation of Strategic Minerals. 


                                                                 
25 https://www.sec.gov/litigation/complaints/2017/comp-pr2017-87.pdf  
26 From court fillings: the Yellowjacket mine, Belshazzar mine, Thunder Mountain mine and the Monarch Mountain mine to 
name a few 
27 https://idahostateregionalcenter.wordpress.com/2011/11/01/drilling-at-gold-hill/  



https://www.sec.gov/litigation/complaints/2017/comp-pr2017-87.pdf

https://idahostateregionalcenter.wordpress.com/2011/11/01/drilling-at-gold-hill/
Viceroy Research Group 20 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 37 Strategic Minerals LLC links 


It is not clear how Muroff and Pretium came into contact but we suspect that the motive for milling at Strategic 


Minerals was to produce the desired grades from the Brucejack mine bulk sample program. 


A person affiliated with the testing facility, Contact Mill & Mining Co., stated in a conversation that it was: 


"…strange that Strategic Minerals insisted they handle the testing themselves. That has never 


happened before. They also had us sign an NDA."  


Additionally, they stated it was unusual that the Contact Mill & Mining facility was used to process Pretium's 


>10,000 tonne sample, as their facility specialized in small 500-1,000 tonne samples.  


The facts surrounding Strategic Minerals LLC are as follows: 


▪ Strategic Minerals LLC was owned by SEC-sanctioned individual Sima Muroff for the relevant period. 


▪ Strategic Minerals was incorporated and run by employees and management of SEC-sanctioned ISR Capital 


which raised funds from investors to invest in mining-related companies in Idaho and Montana from 2012 


to 2014. 


▪ ISR Capital further invested funds in various equity and derivative products of listed mining operators 


throughout the time period, however we have been unable to confirm if Pretium was one such investment 


▪ Strategic Minerals LLC operated the Contact Mill Mining and Mill concentrator during late 2013 during which 


time it processed “…custom ore from Montana and a bulk sample from Pretium’s Brucejack mine…”.  


▪ Grade results for the Brucejack mine from Strategic Minerals LLC were far higher than those reported by 


Strathcona’s tower sample. 


We believe great efforts were to be taken to mask the individual behind Strategic Minerals LLC from Pretium 


investors. The bulk sample program's results were inferred across the entire project. These results are the basis 


for Pretium's current market value.  


Multi-billion-dollar mining companies do not routinely engage an entity led by an individual who was later 


charged with fraud, with exceptional consideration to Muroff who further managed a multi-million-dollar 


investment vehicle – the opportunity for fraud is immense.
Viceroy Research Group 21 viceroyresearch.org 


3.2. Timeline of events – Sima Muroff, ISR Capital & Strategic Minerals 
Year Date Event 


2010 
 


October 28 Pretium acquired the project from Silver Standard. Quartermain served as 
President of Silver Standard from 1985 to 2010. 


December 
21 


Sima Muroff is charged with "driving reckless" and "weapon -carry concealed while 
under the influence.” 


2012 August 27 Strategic Minerals LLC is formed. 


2013 


May 31 Sima Muroff is charged with "driving under the influence" and "weapon — carry” 


July 10 Sima Muroff is charged with "drivers license - failed to purchase or invalid." 


September 
30 


MHSA Legal ID report for Contact Concentrator is updated to reflect Strategic 
Minerals as the "Mine Operator", Ryan McDermott as the "Person at Mine in 
Charge of Health and Safety" and Sima Muroff (Managing Member) as the 
"Individuals with ownership interest or corporate officers/directors as well as 
Individual principal organization officials or members” 


October 9 Pretium issues a press release highlighting Strathcona's resignation from the bulk 
sample program. 


October 22 Pretium issues a press release containing results from the first cross cuts of the bulk 
sample and more information on Strathcona's departure. Strathcona's assay results 
from the sample tower averaged 2.08 g/t. Strathcona's grade is 87% lower than the 
16.4 g/t grade indicated in Snowden's 2012 Resource Report. Strategic Minerals is 
mentioned for the first time as the "operator of the mill". 


November 
22 


Pretium issued a press release containing results from Snowden's bulk sample 
program. The reported grade of 16.2 g/t is nearly 8x better than Strathcona's grade 
of 2.08 g/t. Strategic Minerals is mentioned again as the "operator of the mill" 


November 
27 


Graham Farquharson of Strathcona) gives a negative interview in Northern Miner 
stating "...the Snowden model, which had 16 million tonnes with a grade of 16 
grams per tonne in the indicated category and a further quantity in the inferred 
category — and we didn't find that. And Pretium didn't find that." 


December 
12 


Pretium issued a press release containing updated results from Snowden's bulk 
sample program. The reported grade is 17.7 g/t and Strategic Minerals is 
mentioned again as the "operator of the mill".  


2014 


January 29 Inspection of Contact Concentrator by the MHSA leads to 12 "significant" citations. 


February 25 MHSA Legal ID report for Contact Concentrator is updated to replace Ryan 
McDermott with Sima Muroff as the "Person at Mine in Charge of Health and 
Safety." 


March 24 Class action lawsuit document filed against Pretium with negative expert 
commentary corroborating Strathcona's views. 


July 4 MHSA Legal ID report for Contact Concentrator is updated to remove Strategic 
Minerals and Sima Muroff. 


2015 
April 14 Strategic Minerals files its last annual report with the Montana Secretary of State 


and is subsequently dissolved.
Viceroy Research Group 22 viceroyresearch.org 


4. Compensatory measures: how Pretium keeps the illusion going  
Recent developments and government filings lead us to believe the 2014 feasibility study – in particular the 


resources model – is not playing out as expected. While Pretium does have access to the high-quality Cleopatra 


vein, the surrounding rock appears to have a low gold content. Pretium also appears to have trouble with reliably 


mining high-grade ore. 


As at the date of writing, Pretium has been able to compensate for this through: 


▪ Milling development rock 


▪ Almost doubling mine development in order to find higher grade ores 


▪ Narrowing their drill core sample spacings to better define the area. 


▪ Attempting to build a stope inventory by building out mine infrastructure so that more stopes are available.  


Our analysis suggests Pretium is a textbook case of selective grading, substantiated by unsustainable results 


acquired through selective mining and milling. The obvious incentive to undertake this activity is so that 


Pretium can refinance its extremely expensive debt book. 


Due to the complex nature of the following section, below is a summary of its contents. 


Pretium’s disclosed tonnage of ore mined and projected ore-to-waste ratios for the relevant period disagree 


with filings made by the company with the British Columbia mines authority. We have analyzed both sets of 


figures using three separate methods to calculate the tonnage of excavation implied for the sake of 


completeness. In all three cases this tonnage far exceeds that claimed by the company to the market.  


Given the annual nature of the government filings used, only data for 2017 is available, during which Brucejack 


operated commercially for roughly half the year. Expert consultants have informed us that excavation from the 


first half of the year would be stockpiled for the mill. Accordingly, we present two separate tonnages: an annual 


figure which includes all 2017 excavation, and a pro-rata figure which only includes the excavation from the 


months Brucejack was in commercial production. 


Using the most forgiving (for Pretium) of these calculated tonnages and Pretium’s reported gold production, the 


actual grade of the excavation can be found. Again, due to the two excavation figures mentioned above, this 


results in two separate calculated grades. 


4.1. Government documents indicate Pretium is moving approximately double the 


amount of rock from the underground mine than disclosed to investors,  
ln its financial filings, Pretium disclosed 552,205 tonnes of ore mined in Q3 and Q4 of 2017. However publicly 


available environmental filings indicate actual ore excavation of 1,168,456 tonnes, 139% higher.  


The Ministry of Energy, Mines and Petroleum Resources, Ministry of Environment and Climate Change Strategy, 


and Environmental Assessment Office of British Columbia requires mine operators in the province to submit 


Annual Reclamation Reports (ARR).
Viceroy Research Group 23 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 38 Annual Reclamation Reports – British Columbia website28 


The Brucejack mine’s 2017 ARR29 details the volume of material displaced at the Brucejack mine in 2017 as 


773,000m3 consisting of 595,000m3 (1,654,100 tonnes) for development (tunnels and drifts) and 178,000m3 


(494,840 tonnes) for production (stopes). 


 
Figure 39 2017 Brucejack ARR – 2017 Construction and Mining Operations Overview 


From these figures we can work out the implied total excavation of the Brucejack mine in 2017. Applying the 


bulk density factor of 2.78 tonnes per m3 calculated by ALS Chemex results in 2,148,940 tonnes of excavation in 


2017.  


 
Figure 40 Section 14.4.2 – Bulk Density30 


 
Figure 41 Viceroy Analysis 


This excavation is detailed in part later in the ARR wherein mining and milling production is broken down by 


month. 


                                                                 
28 https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/mineral-exploration-mining/permitting/reclamation-closure/annual-
reclamation-reports  
29 To view Brucejack’s filings, visit https://mines.empr.gov.bc.ca/ and search for “Brucejack” 
30 Technical Report and Resource Estimate on the Brucejack project by P&E Mining Consultants – November 28, 2011 – 
page 82 





Annual Reclamation Report (ARR) figures


Total excavation in 2017 (m3) 773,000          


Bulk density (t/m3) 2.78                 


Total excavation in 2017 (t) 2,148,940       



https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/mineral-exploration-mining/permitting/reclamation-closure/annual-reclamation-reports

https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/mineral-exploration-mining/permitting/reclamation-closure/annual-reclamation-reports

https://mines.empr.gov.bc.ca/
Viceroy Research Group 24 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 42 2017 Brucejack ARR Monthly Mining and Milling Production as of December 31st 201731 


Comparing the mass of “Underground – Ore” to the mass implied by the production stope volume shows a 


189,624 tonne shortfall. 


 
Figure 43 Viceroy Analysis 


Pretium’s ARR shows a total mill production of 628,394 tonnes, in excess of the calculated stope tonnage for the 


year. This implies some development tonnage has been milled. Waste ore was specifically not milled. Using this 


ARR data, we use three distinct methods to illustrate Pretium's dramatic understatement of tonnage mined. 


The implication on grade is dramatic. In Q3 and Q4, Pretium reported a head grade of 9.4 g/t. Factoring in the 


undisclosed tonnage would have resulted in a grade of 4.04 g/t and 5.37g/t for the annual and pro-rata grades, 


respectively. At both these grades, our research indicates the mine is uneconomic and Pretium's equity value is 


worthless. 


The only way these volume (m3) figures can reconcile to Pretium’s reported tonnage is assuming a much lower 


and entirely unrealistic bulk density factor (t/m3). 


4.1.1. Method A: comparing ARR ore & waste tonnage 
Pretium disclosed only 1,168,456 tonnes of underground waste and ore excavation in their 2017 ARR. For clarity, 


page 88 of the ARR claims that this figure includes development tonnage and is classified as “Underground – Waste”. 


 
Figure 44 2017 Brucejack ARR Monthly Mining and Milling Production as of December 31st 2017 


Comparing this figure to the calculated excavation mass results in undisclosed ore and waste tonnage of 


1,150,544 tonnes, almost doubling the tonnage. 


                                                                 
31 Pretium 2017 Brucejack gold mine Annual Reclamation Report – page 46 
27 Pretium 2017 Brucejack gold mine Annual Reclamation Report – pages 47 & 88 


Monthly Mining and Milling Production


Underground - ore (t) 684,464          


Less: Excavation - production 494,840          


Shortfall from volume calculations 189,624
Viceroy Research Group 25 viceroyresearch.org 


   
Figure 45 Viceroy Analysis 


4.1.2. Method B: comparing company ratio of waste to ore mined to ARR 


tonnage 
ln its Q4 2017 press release, Pretium disclosed 552,205 tonnes of ore mined in Q3 & Q4 2017.  


 
Figure 46 PRETIVM REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND YEAR END 2017 RESULTS32 


According to the June 2014 feasibility study update, Pretium expected to mine 839,000 tonnes of ore and 


303,000 tonnes of waste in year 1, for a 36.11% ratio of waste-to-ore tonnage.  


 
Figure 47 Table 16.5 LOM Backfilling – Waste Rock and Mill Tailings33 


Applying this 36.11% to the 552,205 tonnes of ore mined results in 199,426 tonnes of waste mined and 751,631 


tonnes of total material mined. Total excavation implied by the ARR is 2,148,940 tonnes, 286% higher than what 


was disclosed to stakeholders. 


  
Figure 48 Viceroy Analysis  


Investors should note that the June 26, 2013 Feasibility Study has a far more accurate expected waste rock 


estimate but a far lower ore yield34. 


                                                                 
32 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Year-End-2017-
Results/default.aspx  
33 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 19, 2014 – page 
186 
34 Feasibility Study and Technical Report on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 21, 2013 – page 232 


Method A: Total excavation


Total 2017 excavation from ARR 2,148,940       


Reported underground ore + waste tonnage 1,168,456       


Unreported ore + waste tonnage 980,484          


Ratio of calculated ARR excavation to 


reported excavation 184%


Method B: Ore mined


Reported ore mined 552,205          


Year 1 ratio of waste to ore: planned 36%


Implied waste mined 198,794          


Total material mined 750,999          


Total 2017 excavation from ARR 2,148,940       


Undisclosed excavation 1,397,941       


Ratio of calculated ARR excavation to 


reported excavation 286%



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Year-End-2017-Results/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Year-End-2017-Results/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 26 viceroyresearch.org 


4.1.3. Method C: comparing company ore and ARR waste tonnage 
In the Q4 2017 press release referenced in Method B above Pretium disclosed 552,205 tonnes of ore mined in 


2017. In the ARR Pretium disclosed 483,992 tonnes of waste in 2017. The sum of ore and waste gets us to 


1,036,196 tonnes of material mined. However, total excavation implied by the ARR is 2,148,940 tonnes, over 2x 


higher than what was disclosed to the street.  


  
Figure 49 Viceroy Analysis  


4.2. Implication on grade  
To be conservative, we use the lowest of our 3 methods (Method A) to determine the implication on grade. The 


results are incredibly negative for Pretium's grade. Below we solve for grade in grams per tonne. We have 


completed two sets of calculations: pro-rata excavation which excludes ore mined and gold production for Q1 


and Q2 2017 and a full-year excavation.  


We have done this as we believe Pretium was conducting assays and selectively milling for the full-year 2017 


but believe had we not included pro-rata figures the company would use this as a basis to discredit this report. 


4.2.1. Numerator 
Pro-rata Full-year 


Pretium reported production of 152,484 oz of gold in 
Q3 and Q4. Applying a 96.2% recovery rate35 results 
in 158,507 oz or 4,930,131g of gold at the mill for the 
pro-rata calculation. 


Pretium reported production of 152,484 oz of gold in 
Q3 and Q4 and 8,510 oz produced in the pre-
commercial production period. Applying a 96.2% 
recovery rate results in 160,994 oz or 5,007,474g of 
gold at the mill for the pro-rata calculation. 


4.2.2. Denominator 
Pro-rata Full-year 


Total Q3 and Q4 excavation implied by the ARR is 
1,396,811 tonnes. Applying the 36.11% waste-to-ore 
ratio results in full year ore excavation of 892,361 
tonnes. Adding the full-year change in Pretium's 2017 
Q3 and Q4 stockpiles of 58,868 tonnes results in total 
ore excavation of 951,229 tonnes. 
Applying a 96.47% of mined ore milled as was the 
case in 2017 according to the financial filings, ore 
milled would have been 917,697 tonnes. 


Total full-year excavation implied by the ARR is 
2,148,940 tonnes. Applying the 36.11% waste-to-ore 
ratio results in full year ore excavation of 1,372,863 
tonnes. Adding the full-year change in Pretium's 2017 
stockpiles of -36,262 tonnes results in total ore 
excavation of 1,336,601 tonnes. 
Applying a 96.47% of mined ore milled as was the 
case in 2017 according to the financial filings, ore 
milled would have been 1,289,485 tonnes.  


4.2.3. Results Summary 
This is substantially lower than 9.4 g/t Pretium reported to the street implying a pro-rata grade of 5.37 g/t and 


a full year grade 4.04 g/t. If Pretium disclosed their tonnage in line with what is coming out of the ground, 


Pretium would be reconciling at 25% - 33%, significantly below the 2012 proven and probable grade of 16.4 g/t.  


                                                                 
35 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Year-End-2017-
Results/default.aspx 


Method C: Waste mined from ARR


Reported ore mined 552,205          


Waste mined from ARR 483,992          


Total mineral mined 1,036,197       


Total 2017 excavation from ARR 2,148,940       


Undisclosed ore + waste tonnage 1,112,743       


Ratio of calculated ARR excavation to 


reported excavation 207%



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Year-End-2017-Results/default.aspx

https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-Fourth-Quarter-and-Year-End-2017-Results/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 27 viceroyresearch.org 


   
Figure 50 Viceroy Analysis  


4.3. Implication on tonnage  
In their financial filings, Pretium disclosed 552,205 tonnes of ore mined in 2017. Our math above calculated 


1,168,456 tonnes of ore mined in 2017 as per the ARR, and 759,496 tonnes on a pro-rata basis. This results in 


616,251 tonnes of undisclosed ore excavation and 207,291 tonnes on a pro-rata basis. Pretium appears to be 


pulling far more rock out of the ground than they are disclosing to investors  


  
Figure 51 Viceroy Analysis  


Taking substantially more rock out of the ground in search of gold might signal far less gold underground than 


what was originally planned.  


4.4. Counting Stopes: Pretium is developing the mine at a far quicker rate than 


anticipated. 
All the evidence above leads us to believe that Pretium is selectively mining high-grade stopes. We believe it is 


doing so by developing the mine a far higher rate than the rate projected by the 2014 feasibility study, frantically 


searching for small, high grade deposits. 


Implication on tonnage


Tonnage Pro-rata Full year


Gold production (oz t) 152,484                160,994                


Recovery rate 96.20% 96.20% 


Gold at mill (oz t) 158,507                167,353                


Grams per oz 31.10348             31.10348             


Gold at mill (g) 4,930,127            5,205,274            


Ore mined: financials 552,205                552,205                


Ore milled: financials 532,763                532,763                


% of mined ore milled 96.5% 96.5% 


Implication on grade of ARR excavation (including development)


% of yearly excavation tonnes 65% 100% 


Excavation: Q3 & Q4 1,396,811            2,148,940            


% Year 1 waste-to-ore: planned 36.11% 36.11%


Ore excavation: Q3 & Q4 892,361                1,372,863            


add: stockpiles at period end 161,738                161,738                


less: stockpiles at period start 102,870                198,000                


Ore excavation: Q3 and Q4 net of stockpiles 951,229                1,336,601            


Ore milled: financials 532,763                532,763                


Implied % of mined ore milled from ARR excavation 56% 40% 


% reported ore milled: reported 96% 96% 


Ore milled if reported % of ore milled applied to ARR excavation 917,697                1,289,485            


Calculated grade (g/t) 5.37                      4.04                      


Head grade: reported (g/t) 9.40                      9.40                      


% overstatement 75% 133% 


Reserve Proven-and-Probable grade (g/t) 16.10                    16.10                    


% overstatement on LOM grade 200% 299% 


Implication on tonnage (including development) Pro-rata Full year


Ore mined: financials 552,205                552,205                


Ore excavation in Q3 and Q4: ARR 759,496                1,168,456            


Undisclosed ore excavation 207,291                616,251                


% undisclosed 27% 53% 


As multiple of ore mined: financials 1.38                      2.12
Viceroy Research Group 28 viceroyresearch.org 


In its Q4 2017 announcement Pretium released its lowest head grade yet, and less gold produced than forecast. 


According to the company this was due to operational issues regarding high-grade stopes and equipment 


breakdowns. In response Pretium announced increases in stope inventory and development rate, budgeting for 


a development rate of 700m/mo. 


 
Figure 39 Pretivm Reports Fourth Quarter and Year End 2017 Results 


Page 191 of the feasibility study projects an average development rate of 605m/mo and an average rate of 


460m/mo in years 1 and 2 respectively. Ongoing development to sustain 2700 tonnes per day of ore production 


was forecast as 420m/mo for the first 12 years of mine operation. 


 
Figures 52 & 53 Section 16.4.2 Pre-production Development36  


This was confirmed in the Q1 2018 earnings release showing the development rate had at times exceeded 


800m/mo during this period.  


 
Figure 54 Pretivm Reports First Quarter 2018 Results37 


This was continued in Q2 2018 with a development rate of 700m/mo. 


According to Pretium’s presentation at the 2014 Vancouver Resource Investment Conference, Pretium's average 


stope is 15m wide by 28m long and according to page 182 of the feasibility study, the average stope is 30m high. 


Therefore, the average stope should have a dimension of 10,313 m3. At a density factor of 2.78 tonnes per m3, 


the average stope mass is 35,028 t.  


                                                                 
36 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 19, 2014 – page 
188 
37 https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-First-Quarter-2018-Results/default.aspx  



https://www.pretivm.com/news/news-details/2018/Pretivm-Reports-First-Quarter-2018-Results/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 29 viceroyresearch.org 


Pretium's mill permit calls for a maximum of 2,700 tonnes per day or 985,500 tonnes per year. At an average 


stope mass of 35,028 tonnes, it implies Pretium would require 39.6 stopes per year to reach the current 


maximum mill permit. In the past year, Pretium already exceeded its mill permit by 4.6%. 


 
Figure 55 Viceroy Analysis 


Despite this, Pretium called for a target stope inventory of 10-12 stopes by mid-2018. Note that stopes in 


inventory refers to stopes accessible with existing mine infrastructure: otherwise Pretium would be showing a 


blowout of ore mined relative to ore milled. 


 
Figure 56 Q4 and Year-End 2017 Conference Call slides38 


Our interpretation of events is as follows. Pretium is following the feasibility study based around the Snowden 


resources model yielding middling grade results. In Q4 2017 the company loses the high-grade vein resulting in 


having to mine the surrounding mass resulting in its lowest grades yet.  


What follows is a massive rush to develop the Brucejack mine’s underground infrastructure to build up a stope 


inventory far beyond what can be processed under the company’s current permit. We believe Pretium intends 


to deliver grade results expected by the street based on Snowden’s wildly optimistic resource model and can 


only achieve this by mining and milling only the highest-grade deposits.  


This is evident when comparing all the above variables. 





                                                                 
38 https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/doc_financials/2017/q4/Pretium-Resources-Q4-2017-Conference-Call-Mar-9-
2018.pdf  


Stope Calculations


Stope width (m) 15                            


Stope length (m) 28                            


Stope height (m) 30                            


Stope volume (m3) 12,600                    


Stope mass (t) 35,028                    


Mill  permit per day 2,700                       


Mill  permit per year 985,500                  


Stopes permitted milled 28.13                       


Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Total


Ore Mined (t) 271534 280,671.00            268,339.00            248,506.00            1,069,050               


Minig Rate (t/day) 2951 3051 2982 2731 2929


Stopes mined 7.75 8.01 7.66 7.09 30.52


Mill permit per day (new) 3,800                       


Mill  permit per year 1,387,000               


Stopes permitted milled 39.60                       



https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/doc_financials/2017/q4/Pretium-Resources-Q4-2017-Conference-Call-Mar-9-2018.pdf

https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/doc_financials/2017/q4/Pretium-Resources-Q4-2017-Conference-Call-Mar-9-2018.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 30 viceroyresearch.org 





4.5. Sudden grade control program and narrower drill spacing 
On June 4, 2015 Pretium reported the initial results of its underground infill drilling program, the purpose of 


which was to optimize stope definition by obtaining drill samples from the mine. According to the release, the 


drill hole centers would be spaced approximately 10m apart for years 1 to 3 of the mine plan. 


 
Figure 57 Valley of the Kings Underground Infill Drilling Underway39 


This drill spacing was consistent in Pretium releases about the infill drilling program until March 8, 2016 when 


the spacing was stated as “7.5 to 10-meter[s]” apart. This implies the spacing was not adequate to provide a 


definition of the deposit or that the deposit formed no continuous mass. 


 
Figure 58 Valley of the Kings Infill Drilling Continues 


This spacing was reduced again following poor Q4 2017 results to “5 to 7-meter centers” 


 
Figure 59 Pretium Resources Q4 and year-end 2017 Conference Call Presentation40 


The tightening of drill core spacings becomes apparent when reviewing the results of the program. See the image 


below. 


                                                                 
39 https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/Press%20Releases/NR-2015-06-04_v001_i305md.pdf  
40 https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/doc_financials/2017/q4/Pretium-Resources-Q4-2017-Conference-Call-Mar-9-
2018.pdf  



https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/Press%20Releases/NR-2015-06-04_v001_i305md.pdf

https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/doc_financials/2017/q4/Pretium-Resources-Q4-2017-Conference-Call-Mar-9-2018.pdf

https://s1.q4cdn.com/222336918/files/doc_financials/2017/q4/Pretium-Resources-Q4-2017-Conference-Call-Mar-9-2018.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 31 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 60 March 8, 2016 drilling results 


The sections in purple and red are gold grades above 20 g/t and 5 g/t respectively. Unfortunately for Pretium 


there is no discernible continuous body of high-grade ore in the majority of its drilling results. This is a reality 


that reared its head during Q4 2017: not only were previous infill drilling programs insufficient to map the ore 


body, but there may not be a large continuous ore body in the first place.  


Section views of Pretium’s underground drilling results are appended to each of the company’s press releases 


about the drilling program. We encourage readers to review the data for themselves for a better understanding 


of how scattered the deposit actually is.  


This corroborates our view of the increased pace of development to reach economically viable ore, as well as 


the company’s newfound focus for amassing more stope inventory than can be currently mined.  


4.6. Explosives consumption rates tell a similar story 
According to page 218 of the June 2014 feasibility study update:  


 
Figure 61 Explosives Vehicles41 


On page 90 the 2017 ARR states "Explosives use from January through December totaled 1,032,863 kg for 


development blasting and 346,206 kg for longhole Blasting".  


                                                                 
41 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 19, 2014 – page 
218
Viceroy Research Group 32 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 62 4.5.2.2 Underground Mine Water42  


This equates to 40% more than was anticipated by the feasibility study. 


 
Figure 63 Viceroy Analysis  


This increase in explosive use in consistent with Viceroy’s overproduction thesis. 


4.7. Waste rock blowouts not consistent with feasibility study 
According to page 313 of the June 2014 feasibility study update:  


 
Figure 64 Section 18.11 Waste Disposal43 


Year 1 waste tonnage was expected to be 303,000 tonnes according to pg. 186 of the feasibility study. 


 
Figure 65 Table 16.5 LOM Backfilling – Waste Rock and Mill Tailings  


According to the ARR, 172,854 m3 of underground rock was deposited into the lake in 2017. At a density factor 


of 2.78 t/m3, this works out to 480,534 tonnes of waste rock. This implies that Pretium has deposited 44.9% 


more waste rock into Brucejack Lake than total waste generated in year 1. This does not account for any waste 


used to backfill stopes. 


  
Figure 66 Viceroy Analysis 


                                                                 
42 Pretium 2017 Brucejack gold mine Annual Reclamation Report – page 90 
43 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 19, 2014 – page 
313 


Explosive use 


Development blasting explosive use (tonnes) 1,033       


Longhole blasting explosive use (tonnes) 346           


Total explosive use (tonnes) 1,379       


Daily explosive use (tonnes/day) 3.78          


Explosive use estimate (tonnes/day) 2.70          


% explosive over estimate 39.94%


Waste rock


ARR waste rock volume (m3) 172,854           


Density (tonnes/m3) 2.78                  


ARR waste rock (tonnes) 480,534           


Expected waste rock (tonnes) 303,000           


% waste rock over estimate 59%
Viceroy Research Group 33 viceroyresearch.org 


The table in figure 66 shows us that Pretium was expecting a 36% ratio of waste-to-ore in year 1. However, the 


ARR illustrated something very different in 2017. The ARR showed 483,991 tonnes of waste and 684,465 tonnes 


of ore, amounting to 71%.  


Investors should note that the June 26, 2013 feasibility study has a far more accurate expected waste rock 


estimate but a far lower ore yield. 


 
Figure 67 Table 16.5 LOM Backfilling – Waste Rock and Mill Tailings44 


 
Figure 68 Viceroy Analysis 


Why is Pretium generating far more waste relative to ore than originally planned? Planning for a 36% waste to 


ore ratio and then executing at a 71 % ratio is almost a 2x increase in relative waste production.  


Is Pretium having trouble finding viable ore and then classifying the result as waste?  


4.8. Key Takeaways 
There are several discrepancies between the figures Pretium has disclosed to the market and those found in its 


environmental reports.  


Pretium is also far ahead of its development schedule for underground works, attributable to a weak Q4 2017 


grade, and is now at roughly double the 2014 feasibility study development rate. We believe the company is 


trying to deliver the results projected by the Snowden resource model by selectively mining high-grade stopes 


through unsustainably accelerated mine development. 


Obviously, this practice would be entirely unsustainable, however it does play to Pretium’s benefit in the short 


term given we believe they are actively trying to refinance their high-interest loan book. 





                                                                 
44 Feasibility Study and Technical Report on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 21, 2013 – page 232 


Bad ore as waste


Year 1 waste tonnes: planned 303,000            


Year 1 ore tonnes: planned 839,000            


Year 1 ratio of waste to ore: planned 36%


2017 waste tonnes: ARR 483,991            


2017 ore tonnes: ARR 684,465            


2017 ratio of waste to ore: reported to gov`t 71%


Difference % 96%
Viceroy Research Group 34 viceroyresearch.org 


5. Robert Quartermain: Same jockey, different horse  
Robert Quartermain's (Pretium's founder and chairman) only mine operating experience resulted in a ~53% 


reserve cut and earlier than planned shutdown at Pirquitas, an Argentinian silver mine owned by Silver Standard 


Resources.  


Quartermain served as the President of Silver Standard Resources (now SSR Mining) from 1985 - 2010 and as 


CEO from 2004 - 2010.  


Robert Quartermain is generally regarded as the architect of Silver Standard and now Pretium. His management 


team at Pretium include the President/CEO Joe Ovsenek, CFO Tom Yip, VP/Chief Exploration Officer Kenneth 


McNaughton, and Chief Geologist Warwick Board. All worked directly with Quartermain at Silver Standard. This 


is a concerning overlap of "talent" when considering the issues experienced at Pirquitas.  


In June 2009, Silver Standard forecasted that Pirquitas would produce 6m oz of silver in 2009 and 10m oz of 


silver per year for the next 14 years. In 2010, the year Quartermain left Silver Standard, Pirquitas produced 6.3m 


oz of silver, almost 40% below his forecast. Furthermore, the open pit operation at Pirquitas was completely 


shut down in January 2017, approximately six years earlier than Quartermain's forecast.  


5.1. Pirquitas: Don’t get your hopes up 
On June 27, 2002 Silver Standard acquired a 43.4% interest in Pirquitas, an Argentinian silver project. The 


remaining stake was acquired on October 20, 2004. The decision to produce at Pirquitas was made on October 


18, 2006 off the back of 2 feasibility study updates in April 2006. What followed was a series of press releases 


that doubled the mine’s reserve over the space of less than a year. 


November 26, 2007 Silver Standard announced it had increased Pirquitas’ reserves by 27% from 107.1m 
ag oz to 136m ag oz. 


May 14, 2014 Silver Standard announced it had increased Pirquitas’ silver reserves by 43% from 
136m ag oz to 195.1m ag oz. 


September 29, 2008 2008 Silver Standard announced it had increased Pirquitas’ silver reserves by 13% 
from 195.1m ag oz to 221.2m ag oz. 





In total from November 26, 2007 to September 29, 2008 Pirquitas’ silver reserves had increased 106%. 


 
Figure 69 Silver Standard Increases Pirquitas Reserves by 27% and Updates Capex45 


After many issues, Silver Standard’s Q3 2011 earnings release revised this estimate downward, reporting a new 


estimate of 172.6m oz of contained silver:  


                                                                 
45 http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/silver-standard-increases-pirquitas-reserves-by-27-and-updates-capex-tsx-
sso-795974.htm  


 



http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/silver-standard-increases-pirquitas-reserves-by-27-and-updates-capex-tsx-sso-795974.htm

http://www.marketwired.com/press-release/silver-standard-increases-pirquitas-reserves-by-27-and-updates-capex-tsx-sso-795974.htm
Viceroy Research Group 35 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 70 Table 1-1 Mineral Resources Estimate for the Pirquitas Property, as of September 30, 201146 


Reserves were reduced by 53% and reserves and resources were reduced by 28%.  


 
Figure 71 CIBC Analyst Report Extract 


A CIBC analyst at the time wrote that these changes dropped the NPV of the Pirquitas mine from $1.7b to $1b, 


a 41% reduction. According to Reuters: 


 
Figure 72 UPDATE 2-Silver Standard shares plunge on reserve cut47 


The parallels between Silver Standard and Pretium are very interesting: a controversial geological interpretation 


during the bulk sample program and higher operating costs being experienced today.  


We believe Quartermain was effectively "fired" from Silver Standard. In a 2010 interview, he:  


▪ Admits to having a difference of opinion with the board, 


▪ Admits the board and he "agreed" it was time for him to step down, 


▪ Spoke (surprisingly) negatively of his replacement, John Smith.  


An excerpt from the interview including Quartermain’s Parthian shot at his successor. 


                                                                 
46 Technical Report on the Pirquitas Mine, December 23, 2011 – page 18 
47 https://af.reuters.com/article/metalsNews/idAFNL3E7MA0XP20111110  



https://af.reuters.com/article/metalsNews/idAFNL3E7MA0XP20111110
Viceroy Research Group 36 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 73 Casey Research – Robert Quartermain interview extract48 


When asked about Quartermain a senior management team member at Silver Standard said the following:  


"It took us a few years to fix what he did. "  


"Robert did not leave us with any cash. The balance sheet was in rough shape and we needed capital. "  


"The modelling and mathematics they used was very aggressive. "  


"When the issues at Pirquitas became apparent and he left, he said 'I have no idea how anyone is going 


to let me run another mine again"'  


Pirquitas may have been just one of a portfolio of assets at Silver Standard however it was the only asset that 


Silver Standard chose to actively operate during Quartermain's tenure.  


Therefore, by investing in Pretium, one is backing a management team whose only operating experience 


resulted in a ~53% reserve reduction.  





Of note are the twin presences of: 


▪ Kenneth “Ken” McNaughton 


Currently Vice President and Chief Exploration Officer at Pretium49, McNaughton held a similar role at Silver 


Standard, Senior Vice President of Exploration. McNaughton was listed as the Qualified Person for 


exploration in the announcement of Pirquitas’ reserve increases. 





                                                                 
48 https://www.caseyresearch.com/whats-next-bob-quartermain/  
49 https://www.pretivm.com/corporate/management/default.aspx  


Name Pretium position Silver Standard position
Date left Silver 


Standard


Robert A. 


Quartermain
Executive Chairman President January 19, 2010


George Paspalas Lead Director Chief Operating Officer January 7, 2011


Joseph J. Ovsenek
President, Chief Executive Officer and 


Director


Senior Vice President Corporate 


Development
February 15 2011


Tom S.Q. Yip
Executive Vice President and Chief 


Financial Officer
Chief Financial Officer August 31, 2011


Michelle Romero
Executive Vice President, Corporate 


Affairs and Sustainability
Communications Director February, 2011


Kenneth C. 


McNaughton


Vice President and Chief Exploration 


Officer
Senior Vice President, Exploration


February 15, 


2011


Warwick Board
Vice President, Geology and Chief 


Geologist
Senior Resource Geologist July, 2012


Kevin Torpy General Manager, Brucejack Mine Project Mine Engineer October, 2011



https://www.caseyresearch.com/whats-next-bob-quartermain/

https://www.pretivm.com/corporate/management/default.aspx
Viceroy Research Group 37 viceroyresearch.org 


▪ James McCrea 


Geologist and Qualified Person responsible for mineral resources at the Pirquitas Mine, McCrea also 


contributed significantly to the work done on the Brucejack area while it was still owned by Silver Standard 


under the name Snowfield. His work is heavily cited in the Brucejack mine technical reports. 


 
Figure 74 Silver Standard Increases Pirquitas Reserves by 27% and Updates Capex 


Two individuals involved in the ill-fated reserve estimate increases at the Pirquitas mine were heavily involved 


in the Brucejack project. Quartermain and much of management were involved with the Pirquitas mine and are 


now at Brucejack where events seem to be following a similar pattern. 


We further believe that the sale of the Brucejack Mine to Quartermain was a forced sale given that Quartermain 


had left Silver Standard on the verge of bankruptcy. 


5.2. Quartermain resigns as Pretium CEO 
On May 7, 2015, Pretium announced that Robert Quartermain would be appointed as Chairman and CEO. 


Additionally, Joe Ovsenek would be appointed to President. Quartermain’s tenure as CEO would be short lived. 


On December 15, 2016, Pretium announced that Quartermain would step down as CEO and become Executive 


Chair while Ovsenek would become President and CEO effective January 1, 2017.  


It is curious that Robert Quartermain would relinquish the CEO title of his crown jewel asset months before 


commissioning. 


Perhaps it is because Quartermain knew that the mine would experience significant issues and would grade 


poorly once commissioned. The first 2 months of Pretium's commissioning resulted in a grade of 3.7 g/t in June 


and 6.3 g/t in July, both significantly below the 16.4 g/t proven and probable grade.  


Or perhaps Quartermain knew that the mine was experiencing significant issues and the original mine plan 


would need to change dramatically?  


It is our view that such significant deviations from plan should not be occurring if the mine was performing as 


expected. Higher all-in sustaining costs (AISC), tighter drill spacing, faster underground development, more 


stopes, change in stoping method, and unexpected need for a grade control system collectively suggest to us 


that management is scrambling to find gold. Finally, the asset output change (more dore than planned) is 


peculiar to us.  


"Some of the red flags are more significant or more obvious than others. Some of them, on their own, 


might not create any doubt or questions to the casual observer but collectively, they all point in the 


same direction. "  


- October 20, 1997 letter from Strathcona Mineral Services Ltd. to Bre-X Minerals Ltd
Viceroy Research Group 38 viceroyresearch.org 


6. Financial irregularities supports aggressive mining thesis 


6.1. COGS mismatch 
A comparison of Pretium’s expected and actual cost of sales corroborates our already extensive evidence that 


the company is taking more ore out of the ground than disclosed to investors.  


The follow extract from Pretium’s 2014 feasibility study forecasts operating costs of CAD 163/tonne of ore mined 


and processed. For ore not processed a cost of CAD 93/tonne is forecast. In consultation with industry experts, 


we believe this figure is conservative. 


 
Figure 75 Section 15.2 Cut-off grade50 


We have used this data to derive an estimate cost of sales based on Brucejack’s first 12 months of commercial, 


ramped production: 


 
Figure 76 Viceroy Analysis 


Note that, outside of Q3 2017, costs have blown out significantly on a relative basis, up to 130% over expectation 


in Q2 2018 and averaged 71% over expectation for the first year of commercial production. If we were to take 


actual costs and reverse the equation, we would have expected Pretium to have mined ~73% more ore relative 


to waste – a figure closer to what we have seen through Pretium’s environmental reports. 


This analysis further supports our belief that Pretium has overmined and is selectively milling high-grade ore in 


order to keep up appearances while a new financing deal is taking place. 


                                                                 
50 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 19, 2014 – page 
158 


COGS Analysis (Quarterly) Q3 2017 Q4 2017 Q1 2018 Q2 2018 First 12 months Implied tonnage calc


Expected ore COS/tonne CAD/tonne 163.05             163.05             163.05             163.05             163.05                   163.05                             


Implied expected waste COS/tonne CAD/tonne 93.00               93.00               93.00               93.00               93.00                     93.00                               


USD/CAD period start USD/CAD 1.2491             1.2466             1.2627             1.2893             1.2491                   1.2491                             


USD/CAD period end USD/CAD 1.2468             1.2573             1.2896             1.3141             1.3141                   1.3141                             


USD/CAD period average USD/CAD 1.2480             1.2520             1.2762             1.3017             1.2816                   1.2816                             


Expected ore COS/tonne USD/tonne 130.65             130.24             127.76             125.26             127.22                   127.22                             


Implied expected waste COS/tonne USD/tonne 74.52               74.28               72.87               71.45               72.57                     72.57                               


Ore mined tonnes 271,534           280,671           268,339           248,506           1,069,050              1,851,547                       


Year 1 waste-to-ore ratio % 36.11% 36.11% 36.11% 36.11% 36.11% 36.11%


Waste mined tonnes 98,051             101,350           96,897             89,736             386,034                 668,594                           


Ore cost USD 000's 35,477             36,553             34,284             31,128             137,442                 235,559                           


Waste cost USD 000's 7,307                7,529                7,061                6,411                28,308                   48,517                             


Calculated cost of sales 42,784             44,082             41,345             37,539             165,750                 284,076                           


Reported cost of sales USD 000's 44,912             80,168             72,588             86,408             284,076                 284,076                           


Difference USD 000's 2,128                36,086             31,243             48,869             118,326                 -                                   


Difference % 4.97% 81.86% 75.57% 130.18% 71.39% 0.00%
Viceroy Research Group 39 viceroyresearch.org 


6.2. Overcapitalization of mine development 
Pretium’s 2014 feasibility study indicates that an initial capital outlay of ~US$746m would be required to bring 


the mine up to commercialization, ~US$289m of which would be required to develop the Brucejack mineral 


property (i.e. not including PPE or indirect costs). 


Per discussions with our mineral consultants, we have highlighted these relevant costs below: 


 
Figure 77 Table 1.4 Summary of Initial Capital Cost51 


In 2017 alone, over US$420m of construction capex was attributed to Pretium’s mineral property account: 


 
Figure 78 Pretium 2017 Annual Financial Report – Note 8 Mineral Properties, Plant and Equipment 


                                                                 
51 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC by Tetra Tech – June 19, 2014 – page 
42
Viceroy Research Group 40 viceroyresearch.org 


This follows a CAD 513m transfer to mineral properties from “Exploration and evaluation assets” in 2015, 


bringing the Mineral Properties asset balance to >US$800m, or ~US$670m when excluding the purchase price 


for the mine of ~$138m.  


Simply put, the real capital outlay for the development of Pretium’s mineral properties is over 2x the expected 


capital outlay in the 2014 feasibility study, likely a major factor in Pretium’s over-indebtedness.  


The remaining ~$458m feasibility budgeted outlay attributed to PPE or other indirect, capitalized fixed asset 


outlays also appears to have been overblown, with pre-depreciation PPE balances at $544m at Q4 2017.  


In Q2 2018, Pretium reported free cash flows of $72m, partially driven by lower than expected AISC per ounce 


of gold sold of $648 relative to previous quarters ($1,009/oz in Q1 2018) and limited sustaining capex, which 


management advised will be significantly higher in the second half of 201852. 


Given the quantum of evidence suggesting Pretium has overmined in 2017, Viceroy believe Pretium have been 


capitalizing operational costs in the 2017 financial year to bump 2018 results. In other words, Pretium have 


taken a capitalized earnings bath to push favorable results during a debt refinance period. 


7. Valuation 


7.1. Pretium has a significant debt payment coming due; if it can't make the 


payment, then Pretium may be unable to remain a going concern  
As of Q2 2018, Pretium has ~$700M of debt (excl. convertible notes) and $142M of cash on their balance sheet. 


The company’s net debt represents ~35% of its current market cap. This is one of the highest net debt-to-market 


cap ratios we have seen in the gold mining industry. In fact, the top 10 North American gold mining companies 


by market cap are levered approximately 12% on average. Pretium's leverage represents almost 3x this amount. 


We believe Pretium is a high-risk credit.  


According to page 8 of Pretium's Q2 2018 financial statements, Pretium's creditors would seem to agree with 


us: "the effective interest rate on the credit facility is 15.0%". The effect of this rate has not previously been 


seen as interest expenses have been capitalized. 


 
Figure 79 Pretium Q1 2018 Financial Statements – Note 7 (a) Senior secured term credit facility 


On December 31, 2018, Pretium is due to pay a $423M credit facility. Pretium has the option to extend this for 


1 year for a 2.5% extension fee plus 7.5% payment-in-kind interest. This would result in a $455M liability by 


December 31, 2019.  


 
Figure 80 Pretium Q1 2018 Financial Statements – Note 2 (a) Statement of compliance 


In addition to the credit facility, Pretium has the option to repurchase its stream obligation for $237M on 


December 31, 2018. If they do not exercise this option, the stream obligation rises to $272M on December 31, 


2019. It is worth noting that this stream contract changed hands before commencement of mineral production. 


                                                                 
52 https://seekingalpha.com/article/4197685-pretium-resources-inc-pvg-ceo-joseph-ovsenek-q2-2018-results-earnings-call-
transcript  



https://seekingalpha.com/article/4197685-pretium-resources-inc-pvg-ceo-joseph-ovsenek-q2-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript

https://seekingalpha.com/article/4197685-pretium-resources-inc-pvg-ceo-joseph-ovsenek-q2-2018-results-earnings-call-transcript
Viceroy Research Group 41 viceroyresearch.org 


 
Figure 81 Pretium 2017 Annual Financial Report – Note 10 (c) Stream obligation 


This means that Pretium will have a $660M liability by December 31, 2018 or a $727M liability, excluding 


converted notes, by December 31, 2019.  


It is our belief that Pretium have distorted its operations in order to influence a 


refinancing these expensive commitments.  


Pretium has expressed that they intend to repurchase their stream obligation in their Q4 2017 conference call 


slides. 


 
Figure 82 Pretium Resources Q4 and year-end 2017 Conference Call Presentation 


The terms of the stream agreement are laid out in Pretium’s annual reports. 


 
Figure 83 Pretium 2017 Annual Financial Report – Note 10 (c) Stream obligation 


Viceroy believe the evidence supported research contained in this report will be taken into serious consideration 


by possible future creditors. We cannot imagine a rational party would provide Pretium with preferable terms 


in light of what we believe to be clear evidence of distorting mineral studies, mining results, and financial 


statements. 


As an aside, make note that a provision within Pretium’s credit and stream agreements requires Pretium to 


report monthly grades to its creditors. If indeed Pretium has distorted these grades, we believe this would be 


deemed a significant breach of contract. 


 
Figure 84 Pretium September 15, 2015 Credit Facility Agreement 


7.2. Rolling over debt – contractual obligations and restrictions 
Our research suggests it is unlikely that Pretium will be able to refinance its existing loan structure, leaving it 


with little option but to roll over its expensive commitments for another year. The question then becomes 


whether or not Pretium can do so without breaching its contract restrictions.  


Unfortunately, Pretium has only made available heavily redacted credit, stream and offtake agreements from 


which we cannot draw a strong analysis.
Viceroy Research Group 42 viceroyresearch.org 


Commonly, these agreements have certain performance covenants based on earnings, mineral grade and 


leverage – we cannot imagine Pretium’s agreements being substantially different. If Pretium have similarly 


marketed the Brucejack Project to its creditors as a high-grade, high-output, high-yield mine, then management 


will have some explaining to do. 


This argument is the basis of conclusion that Pretium’s equity is effectively worthless. As our NAV projections 


below show, the likely scenario in Pretium’s situation is that the mine is turned over to creditors as collateral for 


their loans, which are unlikely to be repaid in full. 


7.3. Revised NAV 
Viceroy have recreated an extremely conservative baseline NAV with which to value Pretium. We back-tested 


the results of our NAV and consider its assumption optimistic when using operating variables provided by 


Pretium (output in line with “higher price” post-tax NAV in the 2014 feasibility study).  


Note that our model assumes extremely conservative corporate expenses, capex and lower operating costs 


given movements in the USD/CAD exchange rate. 


 
Figure 85 Table 22.3 Summary of Post-tax NPV, IRR, and Payback by Metal Price53 


Recall in Section 4.2.3 above the distinction between full year grade and pro-rata: using these two implied grades 


and substituting them as year 1 to 10 grades allows us to revise Brucejack’s NAV for these adjusted grades. 


The 2014 feasibility study breaks out a relationship between ore grades for years 1 to 10 of mine operation and 


for the entire 18-year life of the mine.  As discount rates will substantially nullify the effect of a pro-rata 


adjustment on grades of this nature, we have assumed what we believe to be an optimistic 5.37 au g/t on our 


NAV model for the remaining life of the mine. This figure is derived from our calculations in Section 6.3 of this 


report.  


 
Figure 86 Table 22.1 Metal Production Quantities54 


                                                                 
53 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC JUNE 19, 2014 – page 381 
54 Feasibility Study and Technical Report Update on the Brucejack Project, Stewart, BC JUNE 19, 2014 – page 379
Viceroy Research Group 43 viceroyresearch.org 


Once grade assumptions of Pretium’s NAV have are adjusted to our estimate of 5.37g/t, 


Pretium’s NAV falls to USD -1,917m. 


Pretium would need to achieve 8.52g/t to simply break even, assuming an optimistic 


gold price of $1300/oz. 


For background, when applying assumptions used in Pretium’s feasibility study, our NAV results at ~US$1.6b, 


similar to feasibility study model. 


 
Figure 87 Viceroy analysis 


 
Figure 88 Viceroy analysis 





NAV sensitivity analysis


-1756 1,000$         1,100$         1,200$         1,300$         1,400$         1,500$      


4.0   (2,977) (2,753) (2,533) (2,312) (2,092) (1,872)


4.5   (2,818) (2,581) (2,346) (2,110) (1,874) (1,638)


5.0   (2,661) (2,410) (2,158) (1,907) (1,655) (1,404)


5.5   (2,505) (2,238) (1,971) (1,704) (1,437) (1,170)


6.0   (2,349) (2,066) (1,783) (1,501) (1,218) (936)


6.5   (2,192) (1,894) (1,596) (1,298) (1,000) (702)


7.0   (2,036) (1,722) (1,409) (1,095) (781) (468)


7.5   (1,880) (1,551) (1,221) (892) (563) (319)


8.0   (1,724) (1,379) (1,034) (689) (422) (201)


8.5   (1,567) (1,207) (847) (542) (312) (84)


9.0   (1,411) (1,035) (678) (439) (203) 33              


9.5   (1,255) (863) (581) (337) (94) 150            


10.0 (1,099) (739) (487) (236) 16                  267            


Gold price (US$/oz)


G
o


ld
 g


ra
d


e
 (


a
u


 g
/t


o
n


n
e


)


Current gold price
Viceroy Research Group 44 viceroyresearch.org 


The research presented in the sections above leads us to believe the following: 


1. Unless Brucejack can sustain a gold grade of significantly more than 8.98 g/t, the Brucejack mine will not be 


economically feasible and therefore worthless.  


2. Pretium and Snowden disagreed with Strathcona, who believed Brucejack did not exhibit such grades that 


could be mined in the manner Pretium has inaccurately marketed to shareholders. Our evidence has 


corroborated Strathcona’s findings. 


3. Pretium has managed to report such grades through development acceleration, selective stoping and 


mining above its mandate. 


Another major issue we present to investors is the use of a 5% WACC, which is entirely unrealistic given Pretium’s 


high leverage at an incredibly high 15% effective interest rate. In reality, we believe Pretium’s WACC would 


exceed 10%.  


7.4. Impairment of debt 
Our revised Brucejack’s NAV, supported by the information contained within this report, suggests Pretium’s 


debt is substantially impaired.  


It would be uneconomic to change Brucejack’s mine plan without significant investment, as the mining and 


milling equipment currently used by Pretium is unsuitable for a low-tonnage high yield mine that would better 


fit the Cleopatra vein. Significant changes to mine plan would require further investment, as well as disposal of 


equipment currently in use at Brucejack. 


Our mine valuation – coupled with Pretium’s overleveraged balance sheet – lead us to believe Pretium equity 


is effectively worthless at its current state with a NAV of US -$1.7b.  


In this scenario, we believe the most likely outcome is that debtholders will exercise their security and take 


control of the mine as the company becomes progressively, but quickly, unprofitable. 


 
Figure 89 Viceroy analysis
Viceroy Research Group 45 viceroyresearch.org 


8. Conclusion 
Viceroy believe that Pretium will soon, or may have already, exhausted the accessible high-grade stopes of the 


Cleopatra vein in the Brucejack mine. The company’s accelerated development schedule and sudden focus on 


stope inventory and grade control leads us to believe this is the case. The mismatch between the amount of ore 


mined in environmental filings and company releases further leads us to believe that the overall grade of the 


mine is far below that projected by the 2014 feasibility study. 


The upcoming debt repayments and stream repurchase are the clear motivator for such activities. Viceroy 


believe it is plausible that Pretium can continue this overmining program in the short term, and would not be 


put off by Q3 results that, similar to Q2 2018, look great at face value. Evidence suggests these results are 


entirely unsustainable. 


We believe Brucejack will experience the same fate as Pirquitas with all its consequences for Pretium’s 


shareholders. Management’s track record does not inspire hope, and accordingly we expect more misleading 


statements to the market.  


We value Pretium’s shares at $0 per share based on a revised estimate of the Brucejack mine’s grade, the 


expectation of further operational issues and managerial incompetence.  


While this valuation may be viewed as inflammatory, we believe the collective research within this report and 


concerns raised by industry experts regarding the Brucejack mine objectively validates a negative NAV value for 


the project – we would be doing a disservice to report it otherwise.
Viceroy Research Group 46 viceroyresearch.org 


9. Case Study – Rubicon Minerals 
Rubicon Minerals (TSE: RMX) is a Canadian gold-mining company that lives on as a shadow of its former self. The 


company commenced production in 2015 and did produce some bullion at its flagship Phoenix Gold project 


located in Red Lake, Ontario.  


Phoenix Gold had its first gold pour in July 2015 after a streak of positive news regarding the company. This was 


not to last. 


On October 5, 2015 only 5 months after being reappointed at a company AGM, Rubicon CEO Michael A. Lalonde 


apparently stepped down without explanation55. On November 3, 2015 underground activities at the Phoenix 


Gold project were announced as “temporarily suspended” to revise resource estimates56. On January 11, 2016 


Rubicon significantly downgraded its mineral resource estimates both indicated and inferred.  


 
Figure 90 Rubicon Updates Mineral Resource Statement for the Phoenix Gold Project and Evaluates Strategic Alternatives 57 


The change resulted in a 91% decrease in indicated gold and 86% decrease in inferred resources. Rubicon claims 


that this error was discovered in the midst of developments in the company’s understanding of the Phoenix Gold 


F2 deposit’s composition, specifically the spatial distribution of gold within the deposit.  


The following figure from its June 2018 corporate presentation illustrates the difference between the two 


geological interpretations. 


 
Figure 91 Rubicon Minerals Corporate Presentation – June 201858 


                                                                 
55 http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Rubicon-Announces-the-Appointment-of-
Bill-Shand-to-Vice-President-Operations/default.aspx  
56 http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Underground-Activities-Temporarily-
Suspended-at-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-Rubicon-to-Enhance-Its-Geological-Model-and-Develop-an-Implementation-
Plan/default.aspx  
57 http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2016/Rubicon-Updates-Mineral-Resource-
Statement-for-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-And-Evaluates-Strategic-Alternatives/default.aspx  
58 http://s21.q4cdn.com/960886365/files/doc_presentations/2018/20180611-June-2018-Corporate-
Presentation_FINAL.pdf  



http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Rubicon-Announces-the-Appointment-of-Bill-Shand-to-Vice-President-Operations/default.aspx

http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Rubicon-Announces-the-Appointment-of-Bill-Shand-to-Vice-President-Operations/default.aspx

http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Underground-Activities-Temporarily-Suspended-at-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-Rubicon-to-Enhance-Its-Geological-Model-and-Develop-an-Implementation-Plan/default.aspx

http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Underground-Activities-Temporarily-Suspended-at-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-Rubicon-to-Enhance-Its-Geological-Model-and-Develop-an-Implementation-Plan/default.aspx

http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2015/Underground-Activities-Temporarily-Suspended-at-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-Rubicon-to-Enhance-Its-Geological-Model-and-Develop-an-Implementation-Plan/default.aspx

http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2016/Rubicon-Updates-Mineral-Resource-Statement-for-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-And-Evaluates-Strategic-Alternatives/default.aspx

http://rubiconminerals.com/Investor-News/News/Press-release-details/2016/Rubicon-Updates-Mineral-Resource-Statement-for-the-Phoenix-Gold-Project-And-Evaluates-Strategic-Alternatives/default.aspx

http://s21.q4cdn.com/960886365/files/doc_presentations/2018/20180611-June-2018-Corporate-Presentation_FINAL.pdf

http://s21.q4cdn.com/960886365/files/doc_presentations/2018/20180611-June-2018-Corporate-Presentation_FINAL.pdf
Viceroy Research Group 47 viceroyresearch.org 


The company had completely overestimated the continuity of the F2 gold deposit by applying incorrect 


methodologies to their drill samples.  


The 2018 structural interpretation is clearly more complex than both previous iterations and demonstrates an 


in-depth understanding. What toppled Rubicon was the willingness to market the 2013 interpretation as fact 


and plan their mine operations as such.  


We present this case study as we believe this is exactly what is happening at Pretium with the Cleopatra vein at 


Brucejack. While Rubicon now appear to be taking a measured and methodical approach to their deposit, this 


change came far too late for its stakeholders. 


10. Independent mineral consultants have expressed discomfort 


with Pretium's strategy, estimation methodology, project risk, and 


potential for gold  
In order to back test our thesis Viceroy engaged multiple mining firms consisting of experienced and well-


regarded mineral consultants to opine on Pretium's bulk sample program and recent operating performance 


(under NDA). Their quotes are below:  


"We are fairly convinced it will be lower grade. I am not so hopeful about the quality of this mine. This 


is a bit scary because the continuity is only there on a few sections."  


"They will make less gold."  


"There is random scattering of really high-grade hits and this is influencing the entire sample which is 


overestimating their entire mine."  


"It is strange that they have not revealed the grade of the stockpile."  


"Whenever you read a technical report with a bunch of statistical mumbo like in this one, it raises red 


flags and tells you that they really have no idea what is going on underground."  


"There is a high degree of risk with this project."  


"I don't think the estimate is done in a conservative manner. To not put a top cut at all on any of these 


high grades is an aggressive estimation decision. Additionally, the extreme high grades are likely false 


because of the assay technique. Combination of no top cut, extending estimate distances and no 


metallic assay takes conservative elements out of the estimation."  


"8% of the tonnage holds 96% of the resource of the project. This is highly suspicious to us."  


"l think they're going to go through stuff quicker and I think they're eventually going to be forced to 


mine low grade."
