MNOV (MediciNova, Inc.): Inert product, hiding key data; TOTAL SCAM (PT:  $1) 
Part 1 in a Multipart Series on MNOV (SHORT)  by Art Doyle 








Summary of this Report 


Here is what you need to know: 


- MediciNova is hiding important data that shows its MS treatment 


ibudilast is almost certainly inert.  P value of 0.29?!? 


- We believe they are clearly and deliberately covering up a FAILURE 


- MediciNova has a 13+ year history as a public company of putting out 


what we believe are purposely misleading press releases to hide the fact 


that their trials ALWAYS FAIL. 


- We are calling BS on this MS SCAM. 


Here is what we will cover in this report: 


1) The poster that was actually presented yesterday at the ACTRIMS Forum contained 


key data that the online version magically missed.  This data shows that the study 


determined the drug has NO IMPACT on disability in MS. 


2) We believe MediciNova made false and misleading statements in its PR about the 


data. 


3) We believe that MediciNova omitting this key data and misrepresenting other data 


is a material fiduciary breach and constitutes fraud. 


4) Actual, real drugs for MS like Roche’s Ocrevus produce reductions in disability that 


are HIGHLY SIGNFICANT even in Phase 2.  MediciNova claims its study wasn’t big 


enough to show significance in progression…OF COURSE—because the drug doesn’t 


WORK. 





MediciNova management has been pulling what we believe to be a scam of 


mischaracterizing and omitting key data in its press releases for years across various 


programs.  We are calling them out NOW.
Reading this report, you agree that use of Art Doyle research is at your own risk. In no event will 


you hold Art Doyle or any affiliated party liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by 


any information in this report. This report is not investment advice or a recommendation or 


solicitation to buy or sell any securities.  


You agree to do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision 
with respect to securities covered herein. You represent to Art Doyle that you have sufficient 
investment sophistication to critically assess the information, analysis and opinions in this report. 
You further agree that you will not communicate the contents of this report to any other person 
unless that person has agreed to be bound by these same terms of service.  


Conflict of Interest Advice: You should assume that on the publication date of this report, Art 
Doyle has a net short position with respect to the shares (and/or options, swaps, and other 
derivatives related to the shares) of the issuer discussed in this report. Therefore, Art Doyle 
stands to profit in the event the issuer’s share price declines, and may incur investment losses if 
such issuer’s share price increases, following the date of this report. This report, therefore, 
specifically emphasizes negative aspects of the issuer that Art Doyle believes have not been 
properly reflected in the share price of the issuer. Art Doyle may buy, sell, cover or otherwise 
change the form or substance of its position in the issuer in its sole discretion at any time. Art 
Doyle disclaims any obligation to notify the market of any such changes in advance.  


This research and report includes forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, 
assessments, beliefs, views, and opinions of Art Doyle prepared with respect to, among other 
things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer may faces and the potential 
impact of those issues on its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well 
as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, access to capital markets, 
market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions 
may prove to be substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and 
uncertainties beyond Art Doyle control.  


This research and report expresses Art Doyle opinions, which have been solely based upon 
publicly available information, as well as inferences and deductions through our research and 
analytical process. Art Doyle believes all factual information contained herein to be accurate and 
reliable, and has obtained such information from public sources believed to be accurate and 
reliable. However, the issuer may possess or have access to information that materially differs 
from the information presented herein.
Let’s get right into this shady situation, shall we? 


1) The poster that was actually presented yesterday at the ACTRIMS Forum contained key 


data that the online version magically missed.  This data shows that the study determined 


the drug has NO IMPACT on disability in MS. 


The poster that was submitted to the ACTRIMS Forum (and can still be found in this exact 


format online here) looks like this (red emphasis ours…don’t worry, we will zoom in for you): 





Do you see that HUGE GAPING HOLE THERE in the poster.  Would it surprise you to know 


that this hole contains ALL of the data that MediciNova management put into their press 


release yesterday (plus a lot that it should have but didn’t)?  We already saw the sketchy MRI 


data (middle section) last year.  What people want to see—because as even MediciNova 


management admits disability is the THE primary endpoint for progressive MS—is the 


DISABILITY DATA.  As in, are you actually modifying the disease and making these patients’ 


lives BETTER.  This is from their own press release yesterday: 


 
So never mind the fact that they are telling you that their trial design is absurd because there 


is nothing approvable about what they currently have as their primary endpoints.  What 


management is telling you in an indirect way is that DISABILITY IS IMPORTANT.  So why then 


does the poster look like this (zoomed version, as promised): 



https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://actrims.confex.com/actrims/2018/mediafile/Manuscript/Paper2678/SPRINT-MS%20ACTRIMS%202018%20Poster%20FINAL.pdf

https://docs.google.com/viewer?url=https://actrims.confex.com/actrims/2018/mediafile/Manuscript/Paper2678/SPRINT-MS%20ACTRIMS%202018%20Poster%20FINAL.pdf
You may be shocked by this, but MediciNova’s actual disability data is TERRIBLE.  You have to 


ask yourself:  why was this data allowed to be a poster in a ‘networking session’ and not a 


podium presentation?  Why aren’t there glowing quotes by the PI’s or other KOLs about how 


incredible this data is?  Your instincts are right.  It doesn’t make any sense because the people 


that reviewed the data to decide how important these study results were saw this ACTUAL 


disability data (don’t worry, we will zoom in again): 


 
Allow us to break down what you are seeing here: 


- The p value for the hazard ratio (progression of disability) is 0.29.  Let that sink in for a 


minute. 


- The 90% confidence interval (couldn’t do 95%?  Real MS studies do…) is 0.47 to 1.17.  Yes, 


that is correct.  The range includes 1.0.  What this means, and it is vitally important to this 


report, is that YOU CAN’T SAY ANYTHING ABOUT PROGRESSION IN THIS TRIAL AS IT 


PERTAINS TO TREATMENT VERSUS PLACEBO BECAUSE ONE HAS NOT BEEN ABLE TO 


RULE OUT THAT THERE IS NOT ONLY NO DIFFERENCE BUT THAT PLACEBO MAY EVEN BE 


BETTER FOR YOU.  


- Let’s have a closer look at that chart (“computer…ZOOM”): 



http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1601277?query=recirc_curatedRelated_article
What you will notice is first that those curves and error bars completely overlap.  Which 


is completely and totally consistent with the conclusions the data makes.  THE DATA IS 


TELLING YOU THERE IS NO DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THESE CURVES (p value of 0.29 is in 


the bottom right).  But look a little closer at the data and you will see that the curves 


come shockingly close together after 72 weeks.  Finally, notice that there are only 64 


patients in the ibudilast group that made it to 96 months without progressing.  The 


number of patients in the placebo group that made it:  60.  FOUR PATIENTS?!?  The data 


is telling you in black and white that THIS IS NOT AN EFFECTIVE DRUG.   





There is literally nothing in this study that is both meaningful and statistically significant.  


Except one thing and neither MediciNova nor the investigators make much mention of it:  the 


ibudilast patients were significantly YOUNGER to start the trial.  As in p value of 0.02.  Here is 


a shot of the chart that details this (emphasis ours):
Oh, and one more thing that we haven’t seen mentioned elsewhere:  MediciNova uses the 


famous ‘modified intent to treat’ trick in their analysis.  Here is one of many positive Ocrevus 


trials (more on that later).  They, like any other rigorous study, utilize Intent to Treat (‘ITT’) in 


their analysis.  This is the more appropriate and conservative analysis.  Here is a quick 


description of how and why ITT is the proper way to analyze data.  Why is using modified 


intent to treat (modified meaning you made up whatever definition of ITT that suited you) a 


bad thing?  Because it takes patients out of the analysis and introduces considerable bias.  


When you do that, you call into question the data—which by itself is already terrible. 





2) We believe MediciNova made false and misleading statements in its PR about the data. 


We believe the following statements and omissions were made in the MediciNova press 


release: 


- “MediciNova Announces MN-166 (ibudilast) Demonstrated a 26% Reduction in 


Confirmed Disability Progression…” 


o No, it’s didn’t.  The p value of the hazard ratio clearly shows that one can make 


NO STATEMENT THAT IS STATISTICALLY ACCURATE regarding the “reduction”.  


The 90% confidence interval spans 1.0—which, as we have said, means it is 


entirely  possible that the treatment group did WORSE than the placebo group. 


- MediciNova OMITTED the p values for the progression endpoint and also omitted the 


confidence interval for the progression endpoint.  The PI’s included them, as clear as day, 


in the ACTUAL poster (not the one with the big hole in it).  These are BEYOND important.  


They are critical. 


- The press release conveniently omitted any mention of the age imbalance between the 


two populations, the modified intent to treat analysis, or anything else that would 


possibly be useful in evaluating this data in a meaningful way.  





3) We believe that MediciNova omitting this key data and misrepresenting other data is a 


material breach of fiduciary duty and constitutes fraud. 


If you have made it this far, this one should be pretty obvious.  In our view, this selective 


disclosure of key data represents a material breach of fiduciary duty and constitutes fraud.  


We think it is right there in the title of the PR.  They utilize a metric which we believe is 


intended to mislead investors into thinking the data is somehow positive for progression of 


disability.  As we have shown you, it most certainly is not.  Don’t take our word for it…let’s 


see what conclusions the PIs actually drew from this data: 


 
Where do they say there was a 26% reduction in ‘confirmed disability progression’?!?  THEY 


DON’T BECAUSE THEY CAN’T.  The non-redacted poster clearly shows that any and all 



http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1606468

http://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa1606468

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3159210/

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3159210/

http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/02/01/1330487/0/en/MediciNova-Announces-MN-166-ibudilast-Demonstrated-a-26-Reduction-in-Confirmed-Disability-Progression-in-the-SPRINT-MS-Phase-2b-Trial-in-Progressive-MS-Potential-Best-in-Disease-Dr.html

http://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/02/01/1330487/0/en/MediciNova-Announces-MN-166-ibudilast-Demonstrated-a-26-Reduction-in-Confirmed-Disability-Progression-in-the-SPRINT-MS-Phase-2b-Trial-in-Progressive-MS-Potential-Best-in-Disease-Dr.html
discussions around the progression endpoint are TOTALLY MEANINGLESS.  Furthermore, we 


find that MediciNova’s inclusion of the 0.74 hazard ratio but omission of the confidence 


interval is clearly fraud.  We can say the same for the p value.  They didn’t show it to you 


because they didn’t want you to see it because it’s TERRIBLE.  They think you are stupid and 


judging by how this stock has traded of late I don’t see how we can blame them for thinking 


that.  OPEN YOUR EYES AND LOOK.  THIS DRUG IS INERT.  THERE IS LITERALLY NOTHING 


ONE CAN SAY ABOUT DISABILITY PROGRESSION BASED ON THIS DATA.  NOTHING.  The PIs 


knew it so they left it out of the conclusions.  Gee, I wonder why they didn’t have a quote 


from the PIs in their PR? 





4) Actual, real drugs for MS like Roche’s Ocrevus produce reductions in disability that are 


HIGHLY SIGNFICANT even in Phase 2.  MediciNova claims its study wasn’t big enough to 


show significance in progression…OF COURSE—because the drug doesn’t WORK. 


We have seen many people attempt to make comparisons on the 26% to actual real MS drugs.  


If we haven’t convinced you by now that the 26% is not real, we don’t know what to tell you.  


But let’s just play this forward and indulge those that think this is a competitive product in 


the MS landscape.  Let’s shut this down once and for all: 


- The MediciNova data make no sense in any clinical context.  They conclude that 19% 


of their patients in the treatment arm did not progress and that 24% of patients in the 


control arm did not progress.  Ok.  But what is normal?  Well, according to Roche, they 


assumed “an estimated rate of 12-week confirmed disability progression of 0.30 for 


the ocrelizumab group and 0.43 for the placebo group over a period of 2 years.”  The 


CONTROL arm for the MediciNova study gets to 0.24.  So just looking at the results for 


the placebo arm show you that there is something really fishy going on, because that 


is SOME PLACEBO to only have 24% progress when Roche predicted 43% and got 


35.7%.  We note that the blinded study portion for Ocrevus was stopped when they 


got the number of events they needed to show statistical significance so we don’t 


even really know how much better Ocrevus patients would have done.  But we do 


know that the data for MediciNova is garbage. 


- Though we admit it is in relapsing MS and not progressive MS, Ocrevus HIT THE 


DISABILITY ENDPOINT in a Phase 2 study.  And that was against Interferon Beta-1 as 


the active comparator.  The p value on the 220 patient study (about the same size as 


the MediciNova study) was 0.005 compared for progression.  Wow. 





We are just getting started on this name.  These guys have been pulling these 


tricks for years and gullible shareholders keep accepting this type of, what we 


consider to be, data manipulation. 


In subsequent reports, we will dive into the checkered history of this ‘asset’ 


called ibudilast and of the management team themselves. 


THEY CAN’T HIDE ANYMORE 



https://www.roche.com/media/store/releases/med-cor-2011-10-20.htm

https://www.roche.com/media/store/releases/med-cor-2011-10-20.htm
