research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
 
The Boatman Capital 
Research 
 
 
 
Babcock International: Underperformance and 
Overcomplexity 
 
 
 


Ticker: BAB.LN 
Date: May 2019 
Price: 519p 
Market Capitalisation: £2.6bn 
 


 
 
In our opinion, Babcock International needs to write down the value of its 
Defence Support Group (DSG) subsidiary, which was acquired for £148 million. 
According to our calculations, Babcock DSG has overvalued its main contract by 
£50 million, based on an average assessment of underlying operating profits. An 
impairment on this scale would be equivalent to 12.8% of Babcock’s pre-tax 
profits. Based on a pessimistic assessment of DSG’s performance, the 
impairment would be £75 million – equivalent to 19.2% of pre-tax profits. 
 
We also believe that Babcock’s corporate structure and its array of inter-
company transactions creates a system that is opaque, needlessly complex, 
needlessly expensive and prone to errors.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Disclaimer: Important. 
Please Read. 
 
This report has been prepared for information purposes only. It expresses the opinions of the authors 
and is being published because we believe it is in the public interest to do so. 
 
This report, and the information it contains, should not be considered under any circumstances to be 
investment advice. By downloading and viewing this report, you agree that the information contained 
within shall not be construed as an offer, invitation, inducement or representation of any kind to buy or 
sell securities or any other financial instruments. 
 
To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained in this report is accurate and reliable and is 
included in this report in good faith. Before taking action on any information contained in this report, the 
reader must do their own research and due diligence and reach their own conclusions. All expressions of 
opinion by the authors and The Boatman Capital Research are subject to change without notice and we 
do not undertake to update this report or the information, analysis or opinion within. 
 
This report and the authors’ opinions are based on publicly available facts, field research and information 
obtained during our due diligence process. To the best of our ability and belief, the information in this 
report has been obtained from public sources and is not from insiders or connected persons to the stock 
covered here. 
 
By accessing the website of The Boatman Capital Research and/or viewing this report, you agree to hold 
The Boatman Capital Research and any individuals or entities associated with it blameless for losses that 
may result from the publication of information contained in this report. Under no circumstances will any 
individual or entity involved in the publication of this report be liable for direct or indirect trading losses. 
 
The authors of this report and other individuals or entities related to The Boatman Capital Research do 
not have direct holdings in stocks or financial instruments related to the information contained in this 
report.  This may change at any time after publication. 
 
By viewing this report, you agree to all the terms of use outlined above.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
Introduction 
 
In October 2018, the Boatman Capital Research published a report on Babcock International. 
We are returning to this subject ahead of the company’s full-year results, which will be 
released on 22 May 2019. 
 
According to data from the Financial Times, analyst consensus on Babcock International is 
bullish. Only two of 12 rate the company as underperform or sell, despite a 24% fall in the 
share price since the start of 2018. The shares are down 42% since the start of 2017. 
 


 
Source: Financial Times 


 
The financial community has been consistently wrong about Babcock and consensus share 
price targets have massively over-estimated the company’s performance. It is clear that the 
pricing models are not capturing the full story. 
 


 
Source: Marketscreener
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
In our first report we argued that Babcock had consistently sought to paint a positive picture 
of its business while burying bad news and we gave several examples of this. We believe our 
thesis has been borne out by the downgrades, write-offs and announcements made by the 
company since last October. And although Babcock is trying to win back support (the 
appointment of a new chairwoman is welcome news), some investors continue to view the 
company with suspicion. We share their concerns. 
 
[Report updated to remove called up capital section.]
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Executive Summary 
 
 


• Babcock International has written off £120 million from the value of the Avincis 
helicopter deal but we think the company needs to go further and write down the 
value of another acquisition, the Defence Support Group (DSG). According to our 
calculations, we believe DSG is overvalued by approximately £50 million based on 
our average scenario – or £75 million based on our pessimistic scenario. An 
impairment on this scale would represent a write down equivalent to 12.8% of the 
PLC’s pre-tax profits based on last year’s figure of £391.1 million. Our pessimistic 
valuation would incur a write down equivalent to 19.2% of pre-tax profits. 


 
Babcock International has tried to improve its weak underlying revenue growth over the past 
decade through acquisitions. Unfortunately, a combination of poor strategy and poor 
operational management means that many of these acquisitions are underperforming. In our 
last report, we highlighted the problems at Appledore Shipbuilders, which was subsequently 
closed by Babcock. In this report, we look in-depth at another struggling acquisition: the 
Defence Support Group (DSG). Babcock DSG provides repair and maintenance facilities for 
the British Army’s vehicles. It was privatised by the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) in late 2014 
and acquired by Babcock for £148 million. As part of the privatisation, DSG was awarded a 
10-year contract for vehicle maintenance. 
 
Babcock hoped to use DSG as a springboard to win more outsourcing work from the Army, as 
it had done expanding its naval business. However, the strategic failure of this acquisition is 
demonstrated by a sales prospectus for DSG that was prepared by Lazard in 2014. The 
document identified four new business opportunities for DSG but our research indicates that 
two have already been lost and the remaining two are in doubt. Lazard also said there was an 
opportunity for DSG to move up the value chain by becoming a Strategic Support Supplier 
(SSS), providing end-to-end services from training to deployment in the field. Lazard said DSG 
would be able to target 16 SSS arrangements but our research shows DSG has won just one. 
 
To get a picture of Babcock DSG’s underlying performance we have stripped out a number of 
items that are included in its accounts, specifically amortisation of the acquisition cost and 
exceptional items. Doing so demonstrates how poorly Babcock DSG has done against the 
Lazard forecasts: 
 


£m 2016 2017 2018 
Lazard Forecast 
Operating Profit 


12 12.1 11.6 


Actual Operating 
Profit/(loss)* 


7.3 3.4 10.2 


*Excluding exceptional items and amortisation.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
In Babcock DSG’s 2016 accounts, the 10-year MoD contract was assigned a value of £141 
million and the company has amortised the acquisition on a straight-line basis at a rate of 
£14.1 million per annum. In Babcock DSG’s 2018 accounts, the company states that the 
current value of its MoD contract is £99 million, after amortizing for three years. We believe 
this contract is overvalued and we do not think that Babcock will make its money back.  
 
In our calculations for the value of this contract, we assumed a discount factor for future cash 
flows of one, which is consistent with the low-risk nature of the contract and DSG’s own 
straight-line amortisation approach. This means that the value of the contract is simply 
expected operating profits multiplied by the number of years remaining in the contract. Our 
optimistic valuation assumed that operating profits would remain at the 2018 level (excluding 
exceptional items), which gives an implied value for the contract of £71.4 million – 27.6% less 
than Babcock’s valuation. We think this is optimistic because of the unusually low 
administrative expenses reported in 2018, which are unlikely to be repeated. Our pessimistic 
case used operating profits from 2017, which produced a valuation of £23.8 million or 76% 
below the company’s measure. We also used an average of operating profit under Babcock’s 
ownership, which gave a contract value of £48.7 million – or 50.6% below the company’s 
valuation. 
 


 
 
In 2018, Babcock DSG reported an exceptional administrative credit – or “royalty accrual” of 
£9.05 million. This significantly improved DSG’s profits in 2018 but the only explanation for 
this credit was that “there has been a release of the accrued intercompany royalty provision 
as the liability has been waived by the billing group company”. What was the royalty for? We 
cannot see why a repair and maintenance facility with no brand and few assets would be 
paying royalties to another Babcock entity. Babcock DSG gives no cash flow statement but we 


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


16


2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025


DSG Operating Profit Forecast


Realised Operating Profits Optimistic Case


Pessimistic Case Middle Case


Required Operating Profit


50.6% below 
required 


27.6% below 
required 


75.9% below 
required
research@theboatmancapital.com 





believe that the royalty provision is an accounting measure and not a cash transfer, so we 
have excluded it from our calculations of operating profit. 
 
It is not clear where this royalty was owed but we did identify a company called Babcock 
Integration LLP, which has two subsidiaries that reported a combined decline in revenues of 
£8 million last year – possibly due to waiving the DSG royalty payment. Babcock Integration 
was set up in 2010 to hold “proprietary know-how” associated with the purchase of VT Group. 
This know-how could not be capitalised but has provided distributions to members every 
year. Given that the VT assets bought by Babcock were primarily support services contracts, 
it is not clear what intellectual property, patents or exceptional knowledge would have 
existed that required housing within Babcock Integration. We are concerned by the level of 
inter-company transactions with Babcock Integration and the lack of detail about what this 
entity does, or what it is for (see below). 
 


• Babcock’s structural complexity and array of inter-company transactions creates a 
system that is opaque and limits understanding of the company’s underlying 
performance. We cannot see how this lack of clarity benefits investors or financial 
analysts. We, therefore, ask the rhetorical question: who does it benefit? 


 
The DSG exceptional item described above is illustrative of a broader problem with Babcock’s 
structure. The company is made up of about 350 subsidiaries - the chart below represents 
less than 10% of that structure. The structural complexity is compounded by the large number 
of entities within Babcock that have payables owed to other subsidiaries. These inter-
company transactions appear to be little more than accounting measures that store assets 
and liabilities in different places. In effect, dozens of Babcock subsidiaries are passing IOU 
notes between each other for reasons that are not adequately explained.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Structure Chart: Less than 10% of Babcock’s subsidiaries are represented here. 


 
 
The scale and complexity of this system also makes catching errors or misstatements harder. 
We have identified what appear to be a number of errors in the accounts of Babcock 
subsidiaries. It is a legal requirement to file accurate accounts. While some of these apparent 
errors are small, they undermine our confidence in the company and paint a picture of weak 
internal controls. Examples are given later in this report. The bloated structure also imposes 
costs on the company, which pays £1.8 million a year to audit these subsidiaries – many of 
which have no purpose other than to hold ownership of other subsidiaries. On a pro rata 
basis, if Babcock reduced its number of subsidiaries to about 60 it could save roughly £1.5 
million a year. Given that some analysts are forecasting flat profits this year, a £1.5 million 
gain to the bottom line should not be dismissed.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





• We remain concerned about Babcock’s performance at the Devonport Royal 
Dockyards and its relationship with the Ministry of Defence (MoD). 


 
Media reporting since our first publication has highlighted additional problems at Devonport 
and our industry sources continue to warn that the MoD may demand Babcock contributes 
financially to some of the cost overruns. Babcock denies that it faces any such liability. 
 
Babcock’s relationship with the MoD has also come under scrutiny following our first report, 
in which we said that the chairman and CEO had been given a dressing down by the Secretary 
of Defence for various contract failures. A review of ministerial meetings shows that 
Babcock’s CEO did meet the Secretary in January and, that after January, there were no 
further meetings with MoD ministers for more than six months. In the same period, BAE 
Systems had six meetings with ministers and Airbus had five. Babcock is the MoD’s second-
largest supplier, after BAE and ahead of Airbus. Media reporting has also confirmed 
relationship difficulties, with the Financial Times quoting an official saying: “They really need 
to pull their finger out. There is real concern.” 
 
We welcome the appointment of Ruth Cairnie as chairwoman. We encourage her to rebuild 
Babcock’s relationship with the MoD, refresh her Board of Directors and bring in new senior 
executives. We also urge her to simplify Babcock’s unnecessarily complex structure and ditch 
the accounting tricks and obfuscations, which contribute to distrust in the company’s 
finances.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Babcock Underperformance 
 
 
Babcock International’s underlying revenue growth has been poor over the past decade and 
it continues to disappoint – revenues for 2018/19 are forecast1 to be down about 3% to £5.2 
billion when the company announces results on May 22nd. Babcock has sought to address 
this stagnation by buying growth via a series of expensive acquisitions that started with 
Appledore Shipbuilders in 2007 and has included VT Group, Avincis helicopters, the Defence 
Support Group and MacNeillie & Son. 
Unfortunately, a combination of poor strategy and poor operational management means that 
many of these acquisitions are underperforming. In our last report, we highlighted the 
problems at Appledore, which had run out of work and was on the verge of closing. Babcock 
eventually confirmed that it was shutting down the 163-year old shipyard in November2. 
Our report also argued that other acquisitions including Avincis, bought for £1.6 billion, 
should be written down. The company had previously denied such action was necessary but 
agreed to take a £120 million hit on the Avincis acquisition in its half-year results released in 
November3. 
The thesis we put forward in our first report was that Babcock had consistently avoided giving 
investors bad news. The company’s decision to come clean about the problems at Appledore 
and Avincis only after our research was published bears out this argument. 
Another theme of our research has been poor operational performance, which we attribute 
to weak management. We continue to uncover alarming examples of Babcock’s 
underperformance, particularly in the assets it has acquired. In this report, we will look in 
depth at the Defence Support Group. 
 
 
Babcock DSG Limited 
 
The Defence Support Group (DSG) provides repair and maintenance facilities for the British 
Army’s vehicles. It was bought by Babcock from the UK Government in late 2014 for £148 
million, which was about £100 million higher than the next bidder, according to our research. 
As part of the privatisation, DSG was awarded a 10-year contract that guaranteed the 
company would be the primary repair and maintenance provider for most of the Army’s 
armoured vehicles. 
 
 
DSG Strategy 


                                                        
1 https://www.babcockinternational.com/-/media/Document-Library/Investors/Results-and-
Presentations/Updates/Babcock-February-Trading-Update-260219.ashx 
2 https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-devon-46057616 
3 https://www.proactiveinvestors.co.uk/companies/news/209657/babcock-plunges-as-it-takes-120mln-hit-from-oil-and-
gas-business-and-slashes-nuclear-outlook-209657.html
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
We have obtained a copy of the sales prospectus produced by Lazard for potential DSG 
bidders in 2014. The 129-slide deck contains strategic and commercial information, including 
financial projections and the business opportunities presented by the privatisation. 
DSG was supposed to be a springboard for the acquirer to win additional work from the British 
Army. Babcock would have hoped to use DSG as a platform to expand its Land business by 
winning more outsourcing work from the Army, in the same way that the company had 
expanded its naval business over the years. 
According to Lazard, there were a number of opportunities beyond the 10-year maintenance 
contract. However, four-years into Babcock’s ownership of DSG and it is already clear that 
many of these opportunities have been missed. 
 


Opportunity Activity Outcome 
Protected Mobility Delivering support for the 


Army’s fleet of armoured troop 
transports including the 
Mastiff, Jackal and Husky. 


Cancelled or awarded to other 
companies. 


Warrior CSP DSG is a partner to Lockheed 
Martin in the Warrior upgrade 
project. Currently in 
demonstration phase. 


The project is 3 years late and 
£227 million over budget4. A 
government watchdog has 
downgraded the project to 
“unachievable” and there is 
persistent speculation that it 
will be cancelled. 


Scout New armoured vehicle now 
called Ajax being built by 
General Dynamics. 
Opportunity for “strategic 
partnership”. 


DSG has no involvement. 


Future Land Programmes Armoured battlefield support 
vehicle and Challenger 2 
upgrade. 


Delayed. About 1/3 of the 
Challenger 2 tanks are to be 
scrapped. 


 
These opportunities were presented in a Lazard slide, which we have now updated: 
 


                                                        
4 https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/army-plan-to-improve-warriors-is-3-years-late-v38vc5tdh
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
 
Another opportunity identified for DSG was for the company to evolve into fleet 
management. It would no longer be just a repair shop but manage the various vehicle 
platforms “end-to-end”. These so-called “Strategic Support Supplier” (SSS) contracts were 
envisaged for nearly all of the Army’s vehicles and would include services such as training 
through to ensuring operational readiness in-theatre. The number of platforms identified as 
potential SSS opportunities were presented in a Lazard slide: 
 





? 


?
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Of the 16 opportunities given in this slide, our research indicates that Babcock DSG has won 
only one of them – for supporting the Land Rover fleet. The other B Vehicle support contracts 
went to rival suppliers while the armoured fleet has seen no SSS arrangements. 
A particularly worrying trend for Babcock is that two recent contracts for new vehicles – Ajax 
(General Dynamics) and Boxer (Rheinmetall) – have awarded the long-term maintenance 
contracts to the manufacturer, effectively cutting DSG out of future work. 
 
Archie Bethel, Babcock’s CEO, told analysts during the company’s interim update in February 
that he saw opportunities in UK Land Systems, pointing to the likelihood of DSG becoming a 
subcontractor on the Challenger 2 upgrade project. This project was also an opportunity four 
years ago but it keeps getting delayed and smaller in size, the latest announcement being the 
mothballing of 1/3 of the tank fleet5. Babcock’s role might be further limited by competition 
from the new BAE Systems-Rheinmetall joint venture, which we understand is eyeing the 
lion’s share of work. 
 


 
Source: The Times, 19 April 2019 


 
In our first report on Babcock, we highlighted problems with the Warrior CSP tank 
programme, which DSG is working on. The demonstration phase (to prove the upgrade can 
be done) is now 3 years late and £227 million overbudget6 and Lockheed Martin, the prime 
contractor, took a $65 million impairment on the contract last year. In response to our report, 
Babcock said that it was only a subcontractor on the Warrior project and its work accounted 
for about 10% of the contract value, therefore its exposure was small. We are not so sanguine. 
The defence media has repeatedly warned that the Warrior project could be cancelled, which 
would deprive Babcock DSG of tens of millions of pounds in future revenues. And the ongoing 


                                                        
5 https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/british-army-outgunned-by-cambodia-after-tank-cuts-qczvrqz0n 
6 https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/army-plan-to-improve-warriors-is-3-years-late-v38vc5tdh
research@theboatmancapital.com 





problems with Warrior damage Babcock’s reputation as a supplier of complex engineering 
projects. 
 
Babcock can blame DSG’s failure to win new business on decisions made by the MoD, as the 
company did when Appledore started to struggle. But if Babcock wants to grow its business 
and expand into new areas, it cannot keep blaming the MoD. It has to demonstrate it can 
operate these businesses efficiently and develop a relationship with its customer that leads 
to more work. Disasters like the Warrior programme hardly instil confidence in Babcock’s 
ability to deliver for the British Army. 
 
 
Revenues 
 
On the surface, Babcock has more than doubled DSG’s revenues since acquiring the business 
in 2015. Before the acquisition, DSG turned over roughly £150 million a year while the latest 
2018 company accounts show a total revenue figure of £365 million. This is technically 
accurate but the growth in revenues is almost entirely attributable to business activities that 
do not generate any profit. 
 


 
 
As can be seen from Babcock DSG’s accounts, its revenues are inflated by the inclusion of “the 
purchase of materials and spares on behalf of customers”. This is described in the accounts 
as “Sale of Goods” and is accompanied by a “Cost of Sales” item that is exactly equivalent, 
which means that Babcock DSG makes a margin of 0% on this business. Therefore, in 
evaluating the company’s profitable turnover we should discard Sale of Goods, which we do 
from hereon when discussing DSG’s actual revenues. 
 


2012 2013 2014 2015E 2016 2017 2018
Revenue (from Long Term Contracts) 151 160 153 145 179 156 154


Revenue (from Sale of Goods) 0 0 0 0 46 210 218


Revenue (inc Sale of Goods) 151.0 160.0 153.0 145.0 221.0 360.0 374.0


0


50


100


150


200


250


300


350


400


£ 
 M


ill
io


n


DSG Revenue Measures - pre and post acquisition
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
Note 4, page 22, Babcock DSG Limited 2018 Annual Report 
 
 
The only other revenue item in Note 4 of DSG’s financial statement is for “Services from Long 
Term Contracts”, which primarily represents the income from the 10-year contract awarded 
when Babcock bought DSG. While revenues from the contract rose in the first year, they have 
since fallen to be in-line with pre-acquisition levels. The stagnant revenues are a result of 
DSG’s failure to win any significant new business in the four years under Babcock’s 
management, despite this being the primary rationale behind purchasing the company.  
 
 
Costs 
 
With revenues flat, a small rise in costs can lead to a significant fall in profitability. In the case 
of DSG, we can see a worrying trend emerging with costs rising while revenues are flat or 
falling. 
 
As with revenues, the underlying cost of sales are confused by the addition of “Sale of Goods” 
(i.e. spares bought for the Army). We have therefore excluded Sale of Goods and Amortisation 
of Contract Intangible (a constant straight-line amortisation of the purchase price of the DSG 
contract) to infer the actual costs incurred providing the contracted services. We compare 
this directly to revenue generated from Services under Long Term Contracts.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
 
What this shows is that between 2016 and 2017, cost of sales fell in line with revenues, as 
would be expected from a cost-plus contract arrangement where the supplier (DSG) receives 
profits at a fixed percentage above project costs. What is more concerning is that between 
2017 and 2018, costs have increased as revenues have continued to fall. If this upward trend 
in costs continues, it does not bode well for the future profitability of the division. 
 
 
Labour Costs 
 





130


135


140


145


150


155


160


165


170


175


180


2016 2017 2018


DSG Cost of Sales vs Contract Revenue


Services Under Long Term Contract Cost of Sales (exc. Sale of Goods and Amortisation)


 1,640


 1,660


 1,680


 1,700


 1,720


 1,740


2016 2017 2018


Em
pl


oy
ee


s


DSG Total Staff Count
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
 
Babcock DSG spent a combined total of £7.6 million on redundancy charges in 2017 and 2018, 
according to the company’s accounts. Over this time period, total staff numbers rose by 3% 
while wage costs fell by 4%. This suggests that Babcock DSG has been involved in labour 
arbitrage: the process of dumping more experienced staff and replacing them with younger, 
cheaper employees. This policy seems destined to stoke disputes with labour unions and 
could also have an impact on productivity in an engineering-focused field. 
 


 
Source: Note 15, Babcock DSG Annual Accounts 2018 


 
The accounts show a further provision of £4.5 million has been made for more redundancies. 
The provision mirrors the redundancy costs for 2018, which implies that Babcock DSG expects 
a similar number of people to leave the business in 2018/19. We question whether Babcock’s 
“added value” to DSG is simply to replace experts with apprentices, which has a serious risk 
of hampering the quality of its work. 
 
 
Profits 
 
Babcock DSG arrives at its operating profit/loss by taking gross profits (revenue minus costs 
and amortisation) and subtracting administrative expenses. We have excluded amortisation 
from our operating profits/loss calculations because it gives an inaccurate view of the 
underlying performance of the business. (If you do include amortisation, DSG has made an 
operating loss each year under Babcock’s ownership, excluding exceptional items.) 
  


 50.00


 60.00


 70.00


 80.00


 90.00


2016 2017 2018


£ 
M


ill
io


n
DSG Total Staff Costs
research@theboatmancapital.com 








£m 2016 2017 2018 


Revenue 226.2 365.9 372 


Costs (Cost of Sales plus 
Sale of Goods) 


(207.4) (346.1) (360.3) 


Gross Profit 18.8 19.8 11.7 


Administrative expenses (11.5) (16.4) (1.5) 


Exceptional administrative 
credit 


0 0 9 


Operating profit exc. 
amortisation 


7.3 3.4 19.2 


Operating profit exc. 
Exceptional credit and 
amortisation 


7.3 3.4 10.2 





As this table shows, the big variable in the profitability of Babcock DSG are administrative 
expenses. Unfortunately, DSG’s accounts offer no visibility on what these administrative 
expenses are but they fluctuate considerably from year to year. We don’t offer a judgment 
on the validity of these administrative costs but we are concerned about the inclusion of an 
exceptional administrative credit in 2018. This credit – or “royalty accrual” – was worth £9.05 
million in 2018 and without it, DSG’s operating profit was £10.2 million. We think it is likely 
that this royalty is an accounting measure and not a cash item and, as such, we will exclude it 
from our evaluation of DSG’s performance. (We dig deeper into this debateable exceptional 
item in the next chapter.) 
 
 
Forecasts 
 
Stripping out amortisation from operating profits also allows us to compare DSG’s 
performance under Babcock’s ownership to the forecasts made by Lazard in the privatisation 
brochure. The document outlined year-on-year expectations for revenues and operating 
profits.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
 
The table below compares the Lazard forecast to DSG’s actual numbers. As can be seen, 
revenue has been similar to the Lazard forecast but the company has missed its operating 
profit target by a wide margin. 
 


£m 2016 2017 2018 
Lazard Forecast Total 
Revenue 


160.3 162.5 154.5 


Actual Revenue* 179.4 156.2 154.3 
Lazard Forecast 
Operating Profit 


12 12.1 11.6 


Actual Operating 
Profit/(loss)* 


7.3 3.4 10.2 


*Excluding exceptional items, sale of goods and amortisation. 
 
The Lazard forecast anticipates a jump in revenues from 2020 onwards based on 
opportunities to expand the Land business by winning new contracts. As we have noted 
previously, Babcock DSG has so far failed to pick up any significant new business implying that 
revenue will underperform versus the forecast for the foreseeable future.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





DSG Valuation 
 
From Note 18 of DSG’s 2016 financial statement, we know that Babcock assigned a value of 
£141 million to the ten-year bundle of contracts with the MoD that came with the purchase 
of the company. This suggests Babcock was expecting the contract to generate at least £14.1 
million in profits per year and it has duly amortised the acquisition on a straight-line basis at 
a rate of £14.1m per annum. 
 


 
 
In a previous section, we demonstrated that operating profits have been significantly lower 
than the £14.1 million profit rate anticipated by amortisation. In other words, Babcock 
massively overpaid for DSG. Worryingly, even the Lazard forecast for operating profits would 
not have matched the required levels for this acquisition to break even. This suggests that 
Babcock took a gamble on using DSG as a vehicle to generate more MoD business, which has 
been unsuccessful.  
 
In Note 10 of DSG’s 2018 financial statement, the company states that the current value 
assigned to its MoD contract in March 2018 was £99m, after amortizing it on a straight-line 
basis for three years. We establish three forecasts – one optimistic, one pessimistic and one 
average – to describe what we believe the actual value of the contract was in March 2018. 
 
Our optimistic case assumes that the operating profit of FY 2018 continues until the end of 
the contract in 2025. We argue this is optimistic because costs are rising, margins are falling 
and 2018 benefitted from a strangely low level of administrative costs which we don’t expect 
to be maintained. We have excluded the exceptional royalty payment, which, as stated 
earlier, we think is dubious. This gives us an operating profit of £10.2 million per year. 
 
Our pessimistic case assumes that operating profits continue at the same level as FY 2017 for 
the rest of the contract. The third forecast is based on averaging the profit levels of the past 
three years. 
 
As government procurement contracts are considered low-risk sources of revenue, we 
assume a discount factor for future cash-flows to be equal to one. This has the effect of
research@theboatmancapital.com 





inflating the value slightly, but the calculations are significantly simpler and this is consistent 
with DSG’s straight-line amortisation approach. (We don’t account for depreciation as the 
depreciable assets were treated separately when DSG was privatised.) This means that the 
value of the contract is simply expected operating profits multiplied by the number years 
remaining in the contract. 
 


Current Contract 
Value  £             98,666,000    
    





Annual Operating 
Profit Implied Value 


Implied 
Discount 


Optimistic Forecast  £             10,200,000   £             71,400,000  27.63% 
Pessimistic Forecast  £               3,400,000   £             23,800,000  75.87% 
Average Forecast £               6,966,000 £             48,762,000 50.57% 
Required by Contract  £             14,095,143    





 
 
We do not think that DSG will make its money back and Babcock therefore needs to write off 
approximately £50 million based on our average valuation forecast – or £75 million based on 
our pessimistic valuation. An impairment on this scale would represent a 12.8% hit to the 
PLC’s pre-tax profits based on last year’s figure of £391.1 million. Our pessimistic valuation 
would cause a 19.2% hit to the PLC’s pre-tax profits. 
 
Babcock has already written off £120 million from the value of the Avincis deal but we think 
it needs to go further and also write down the value of DSG. Write downs on this scale 


0


2


4


6


8


10


12


14


16


2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025


DSG Operating Profit Forecast


Realised Operating Profits Optimistic Case


Pessimistic Case Middle Case


Required Operating Profit


50.6% below 
required 


27.6% below 
required 


75.9% below 
required
research@theboatmancapital.com 





demonstrate that Babcock’s strategy of buying growth has failed and been value destructive 
for investors.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
Babcock’s Accounting 
 
 
During our research into Babcock International, we were surprised by the arcane nature of its 
accounting structures. Babcock has about 350 subsidiary companies, which bear little 
resemblance to the PLC’s reporting divisions as far as we can tell. 
 


The structure chart (left, and at the 
start of this report) shows 30 
companies and it is already a muddle. 
This chart represents less than 10% of 
Babcock’s structure. 
 
The complexity is compounded by 
multiple entities within Babcock 
having payables that are owed to 
other subsidiaries. In effect, dozens of 
Babcock subsidiaries are passing IOU 
notes between each other for reasons 
that are not adequately explained. 
 


These inter-company transactions appear to be accounting measures that store assets and 
liabilities in different places. In theory, the inter-company transactions should have no net 
impact on the overall financials but it creates a system that is opaque and limits 
understanding of Babcock’s underlying performance. We cannot see how this lack of clarity 
benefits investors or financial analysts. We, therefore, ask the rhetorical question: who does 
it benefit? 
 
 
Babcock DSG: Exceptional Release of Royalty Accrual 


 
As we mentioned in the previous chapter, Babcock DSG reported an exceptional 
administrative credit – or “royalty accrual” - of £9.05 million in 2018. Without this, DSG would 
have recorded an operating profit of £10.2 million excluding amortisation, or a loss of £4.1 
million if amortisation is included. Either way, the inclusion of the exceptional item 
significantly improved DSG’s numbers for 2018. 
 
The exceptional credit is explained in Note 5 of Babcock DSG Limited’s 2018 annual 
statement:
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
 
 
No further explanation is given. Babcock DSG gives no cash flow statement but we believe 
that the royalty provision is an accounting measure and not a cash transfer. But what is the 
royalty for? We cannot see why a repair and maintenance facility with no brand and few 
assets (the workshops remain government-owned) would be paying royalties to another 
Babcock entity. 
 
Babcock has hundreds of subsidiaries and many have significant intercompany loans between 
them. It is therefore impossible to conclusively determine where the DSG credit has 
originated from. However, there may be a clue in the accounts of DSG’s parent company, 
Babcock Land Ltd. 
 
According to Note 12 of Babcock Land’s annual accounts, the company owns a share in 
another entity called Babcock Integration LLP. This share was awarded in return for the 
transfer of “proprietary know-how” to Babcock Integration originating from the 2010 
purchase of VT Group.  
 


 
Source: Note 12, Babcock Land annual accounts 2018 


 
The “know-how” transferred into Babcock Integration apparently could not be capitalised but 
has generated profit distributions every year. Given that the VT assets bought by Babcock 
were primarily support services contracts, it is not obvious what intellectual property, patents 
or exceptional knowledge would have existed that required a special home within Babcock 
Integration. 
 
Babcock Integration itself has a split the company’s various IPs into two separate entities: 
Babcock IP Management (Number One) Limited, and Babcock IP Management (Number Two) 
Limited.
research@theboatmancapital.com 








Babcock IP Management (Number Two) Limited 


 
 
 
 
Combined, these two companies show a fall in revenue of roughly £8 million in 2018, which 
could tally with the theory that they waived royalty payments from DSG in 2018. If this is the 
case, it raises the question as to why DSG is paying for Babcock “industry knowhow” obtained 
five years before it was acquired. Is there any real value associated to this know-how? And 
why would DSG’s expertise be any different now than before it was privatised? 
 
It is possible that the royalty payments were paid to another Babcock subsidiary, in which 
case we would like to know where the money went and what the rationale was. Wherever 
the counterparty lies, we suspect that no cash has left the DSG business and these royalties 
are simply an accounting measure to accumulate intercompany debts. 
 
 
Other Accounting Issues 
 
We have identified what appear to be a number of errors in the accounts of Babcock 
subsidiaries. It is a legal requirement to file accurate accounts. While some of these apparent 
errors are small, they undermine our confidence in the company and paint a picture of weak 
internal controls. 
 
Babcock DSG: 
On page 14 of DSG’s 2018 accounts, it gives details of a statement of changes in equity. The 
equity in 2017 is given as £138,356 (‘000) and the addition of profits for the financial year of 
£7,283 give an equity balance for 2018. The total is given as £145,601. This is wrong: 138,356 
+ 7,283 = £145,639. 





Babcock IP Management (Number One) Limited
research@theboatmancapital.com 








 
 
 
Babcock International Limited: 
On p9 of Babcock International Limited’s 2018 accounts, the company gives an administrative 
expense as a positive – i.e. a profit, not an expense. This could be a mistake or it could be a 
profit booked in the wrong place or a provision reversal. But we do not see how it could be 
an expense and we would normally expect an explanation of what this represents. 
 


 
 
Babcock Holdings: 
On page 13 of the 2018 accounts for Babcock Holdings Limited, foreign exchange gain/(loss) 
is included within operating profits. It should be classified as non-operating profits or other 
income. 


 
 
Accounting Costs 
Babcock has to pay to prepare the accounts of each of its subsidiaries. According to the 
company’s annual report, this cost was £1.8 million last year. This is not a huge amount of
research@theboatmancapital.com 





money given Babcock’s revenues but we think that a simplified structure would save money 
and help investors understand the company better. 
 


 
 
Babcock currently has about 350 subsidiaries and a significant number of these have no 
purpose other than to hold ownership of other subsidiaries. On a pro rata basis, if Babcock 
was to reduce the number of its subsidiaries to about 60 (still a lot) it could save roughly £1.5 
million on its accounting bill. Given that some analysts are predicting that profits this year will 
be flat, a £1.5 million gain to the bottom line should not be dismissed. 
 
Babcock Defence and Security Holdings: 
This subsidiary describes itself as an intermediate holding entity for other group companies 
and its activities also include “provision of management services across the aviation sector of 
Babcock International”. It has a management committee of seven people, four of whom are 
paid by Babcock Defence and Security Holdings. Three are paid by other Babcock companies. 





 
The management committee’s remuneration was £889,000 in 2018, up from £542,000 the 
year before. The highest paid member of the committee received £306,000. We think it odd 
that only two of the seven committee members describe their work as “defence and security” 
on their LinkedIn profiles or in company documents (see below). All the other members
research@theboatmancapital.com 





appear to work for an assortment of divisions, none of which looks like Babcock Defence and 
Security Holdings. 
 
This illustrates the disconnect between how the PLC (and staff) describe its activities versus 
the complex corporate structure put in place to own the operating assets. Paying people from 
different payrolls also makes it difficult to evaluate performance by division and makes it 
difficult to scrutinise how management is rewarding itself. 
 


• Roger Hardy: Chief Executive of Aviation, Babcock board member 
• Steve Landrey: Managing Director, Defence and Security Division 
• Collette McMullen: Projects Director at Babcock International Group; Business 


Support Director at Cavendish Nuclear 
• Neal Misell: Managing Director at UK Military Air 
• Iain Urquhart: director of 116 Babcock entities. Appears to be an accountant with 


Babcock Corporate Services. 
• Karen Hayzen-Smith: Finance Director, Defence and Security Division 
• Catherine Redmayne: HR Director and formerly organisation and development 


director, Aviation. 


Source: LinkedIn and UK Companies House.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Devonport 
 
 
Babcock International manages the Devonport Royal Dockyard facility on behalf of the 
Ministry of Defence (MoD). The facility is part of the Devonport naval base where the UK’s 
nuclear submarines are based, serviced and repaired. In our first report on Babcock, we said 
that the company’s operations at Devonport were one source of rancour with the MoD. 
Specifically, we pointed to major delays and budget overruns for a drydock upgrade needed 
for the Astute class submarines. 
 
Industry sources told us that the Government wanted Babcock to share some of the cost 
overrun, which we estimated could be as much as £200 million based on the very limited 
details available. If Babcock were forced to take on a share of the overrun it would have a 
significant impact on profits. 
 
Babcock denied that it faced any liability because the MoD is responsible for “strategic” capex 
at Devonport and the company only pays for “maintenance” capex. The upgrade work has 
reportedly paused while the Government works out what to do with its nuclear infrastructure 
and how it will afford the Devonport upgrades. 
 
While the MoD is responsible for the drydock costs, our understanding remains that the 
Government does not want to pick up the full bill. The issue appears to have dropped in 
priority while the MoD reviews the nuclear estate but we do not think it has gone away. In 
the meantime, more information has come to light about what else has been going wrong at 
Devonport.
research@theboatmancapital.com 





 
The Financial Times reported in November that the MoD had placed Babcock under scrutiny 
over the performance of some of its Devonport contracts7. The newspaper said: “While the 
exact reasons for the MoD’s concerns are not clear, one of the four submarines, HMS 
Vanguard, has been in dock at Devonport for the past three years for unplanned refuelling at 
a cost of at least £200m.” 
 
According to our research, the FT was correct in its assessment that it was the £200 million 
Vanguard project that was causing trouble. However, we believe the situation was even 
worse than reported. Babcock’s performance on the Vanguard project was so poor that the 
company was required to provide weekly and then monthly reports on its remedial actions. 
 
In addition, we understand that MoD experts from the Submarine Delivery Agency were sent 
in to monitor activities at Devonport and ensure Babcock upped its performance. According 
to our sources, the project continues to face problems and, like the drydock, we question how 
long the MoD will put up with cost overruns and delays before demanding financial 
contributions from Babcock. 
 
 
Babcock and the MoD 
 
The problems at Devonport and with the much-delayed Warrior tank project help to explain 
why the MoD has grown frustrated with Babcock. This is openly discussed by executives in 
the defence industry, despite Babcock’s insistence that all is well with its largest customer. 
 
In our first report we raised concerns that the break down in relations between Babcock and 
the MoD could be a threat to the long-term revenues of the company. According to our 
sources, Mike Turner, Babcock’s chairman, and Archie Bethel, the chief executive, were 
summoned to the office of former Secretary of Defence Gavin Williamson for a dressing down 
last year. We were told that Bethel was kicked out of a subsequent meeting with the Secretary 
of Defence.  
 
Babcock denied there were relationship problems but recent media reporting has picked up 
the same concerns. The Financial Times8 wrote that MoD relations with the company were 
“strained” as a result of the Devonport problems. The FT quoted an official saying: “They 
really need to pull their finger out. There is real concern.” 
 


                                                        
7 https://www.ft.com/content/692abde4-e680-11e8-8a85-04b8afea6ea3 
8 https://www.ft.com/content/692abde4-e680-11e8-8a85-04b8afea6ea3
research@theboatmancapital.com 





A look at the official government records9 for ministerial meetings also tells an interesting 
story. The data confirms that meetings took place between Bethel and Williamson at the start 
of last year, although obviously the content of the discussions is not revealed. 


 
Source: MoD ministerial meetings Q1 2018 


 
In the two quarters following the Secretary of Defence’s reprimand, Babcock appears to have 
been cold-shouldered by officials. Defence ministers did not have a single meeting with 
Babcock in over six months, despite the company being the second-largest supplier to the 
MoD. In the same period, ministers had six meetings with BAE Systems and five with Airbus. 
It was only in October 2018 (after our report was published) that Babcock met Stuart Andrew, 
minister for defence procurement. 
 
We accept that ministerial meetings are not the sum of Babcock’s relationship with the MoD 
but we believe this illustrates, along with media coverage, that something went badly wrong 
with Babcock’s relationship with its largest customer. We hope that the scrutiny following our 
first report has encouraged Babcock to focus on its relationship with the MoD. 
 
 
Babcock’s Leadership 
 
In our first report we pointed out that Mike Turner, Babcock’s chairman, could no longer be 
considered independent under the UK’s Corporate Governance Code as he had been in the 
role for more than 10 years. We also questioned Turner’s management style and his habitual 
conflicts with the MoD. It appears shareholders agreed that it was time for Turner to go and 
he is to be replaced by Ruth Cairnie, who will become chairwoman in July. We welcome this 
move and believe that Ms Cairnie will be in a position to rebuild bridges with the MoD. 
 
 


                                                        
9 https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/mod-ministerial-gifts-hospitality-travel-and-meetings-january-to-
december-2018
research@theboatmancapital.com 





Conclusion 
 
When Ms Cairnie’s appointment was announced, analysts at Stifel wrote in a research report: 
“We view Mrs Cairnie's appointment as a necessary but small step in Babcock's journey to 
becoming trusted again by the City… We believe shareholder value can be created but 
without change, the stock is going nowhere, or even further down, and this situation is not 
sustainable.” 
 
We agree. 
Ms Cairnie needs to overhaul her executive team and find a new CEO and CFO. She needs to 
refresh her Board, starting with Sir David Omand – the senior independent director who is 
also no longer independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code (he has been a board 
member for 10 years). We encourage Ms Cairnie to simplify Babcock’s unnecessarily complex 
structure and ditch the accounting tricks and obfuscations, which contribute to distrust of the 
company’s finances.
