Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Ebix’s 2019 ‘Not-So-Good Business Acumen’ nomination 
Ebix. Do Ebix know what they’re buying? Are their announced contracts confirmed? Let’s f ind 


out.  


JANUARY 7, 2019 – Ebix has characteristically ramped its press-release flow since the publication of Viceroy’s 


initial report and continued its acquisition spree. This report concerns management’s disregard for corporate 


governance, lack of transparency and due diligence. 


▪ Ebix Inc (NASDAQ: EBIX) have come out with multiple acquisitions and service “deals” since our multiple 


publications on the Company.  


- On further investigation, we find that one of Ebix’s announced contracts has not yet been finalized. 


Ebix retracted its press release relating to a purported Dubai Forex Services contract, where 


investors were misled on the status of the contract. 


- This is a major red flag and exaggerates what we believe is an already extremely high investment 


strategy at Ebix. 


▪ This report dives into Ebix’s poorly attempted acquisition of now-insolvent Patriot National, who Ebix was 


looking to ‘seriously’ acquire just before its spectacular collapse. 


▪ Investors will note that Ebix have avoided commenting on the audit committee’s recommendation for Ebix 


to retain the services of Big 4 Auditor for regulatory reasons. We can only assume the Big 4 preferred to 


give ad hoc accountancy advice rather than full audit responsibilities.  


- Ebix issued a press release just days after the appointment of T R Chadra & Co, stating that this was 


an interim measure, and that the Audit Committee had decided it would engage a Big 4 audit firm 


the following year. This is obscure to us, as we don’t understand how Big 4 firms were apparently 


not considered in Ebix’s competitive selection process as disclosed in its 8K on October 5, and why 


this exercise must be repeated in the very short term. 


- RSM appears to have been appointed following the exact same ‘competitive selection process’ that 


lead to the appointment of T R Chadra & Co, according to Ebix’s 8K’s. 


▪ Ebix have decided to have fireside chats with investors while referring to our work as an old short thesis. 


Ebix have refused to account for Robin Raina’s poison pill bonus, the treatment of goodwill, the failure to 


appoint a ‘Big 4’ auditor and multiple accounting irregularities.  


Our research into Ebix is ongoing however we believe the information puts into context Ebix’s recent 


announcements. We will shortly publish further data pertaining to the Ebix group’s internal cash movements. 


You can find Viceroy’s full reports on Ebix on our website: 


https://viceroyresearch.org/category/ebix-nasdaqebix/  











 



https://viceroyresearch.org/category/ebix-nasdaqebix/
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Ebix Inc or its affiliates or any other entity 


to file a report with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroyresearch@gmail.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy.  


As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a direct or indirect interest/position in all 


stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) and bonds covered herein, and therefore 


stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 





 



mailto:viceroyresearch@gmail.com
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


Dubai Airport farce 
Investors should note that since our first report, EBIX appear to have retracted their release regarding winning 


a contract to deploy its Forex Exchange Service EbixCash at two terminals in Dubai International Airport.  


 
Figure 1 Extract from globenewswire.com press release1 


Dubai International Airport were contacted to confirm this contract: the response we received was less than 


concrete regarding Ebix’s contract: 


Dubai airport stated, “Extended service was tendered recently however contractual 


relation for the new spaces are not concluded yet, thus we’re not in a position to reveal 


the awarded company name.”2 


 
Figure 2 Correspondence with DubaiAirports3 


Within days of releasing news of wining the Dubai Forex Exchange Services contract, the announcement was 


deleted from the Ebix Inc website. As of the date of our correspondence with Dubai International Airport 


December 2018, nearly 5 weeks after the announcement, it is still nowhere to be found on the company’s 


website4. Ebix have refused to correct this misleading communication. 


 
Figure 3 Ebix.com link to press release5 


                                                                 
1 https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/11/28/1658369/0/en/Ebix-Wins-Coveted-Contract-to-Deploy-its-Forex-
Exchange-Services-at-World-s-Busiest-Airport-Dubai-International-Airport.html  
2 Correspondence with DubaiAirports dated December 30, 2018 
3 We have redacted the name and position of the DubaiAirports representative 
4 https://web.archive.org/web/20190106181057/https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-wins-coveted-contract-to-
deploy-its-forex-exchange-services  
5 https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-wins-coveted-contract-to-deploy-its-forex-exchange-services  



https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/11/28/1658369/0/en/Ebix-Wins-Coveted-Contract-to-Deploy-its-Forex-Exchange-Services-at-World-s-Busiest-Airport-Dubai-International-Airport.html

https://globenewswire.com/news-release/2018/11/28/1658369/0/en/Ebix-Wins-Coveted-Contract-to-Deploy-its-Forex-Exchange-Services-at-World-s-Busiest-Airport-Dubai-International-Airport.html

https://web.archive.org/web/20190106181057/https:/www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-wins-coveted-contract-to-deploy-its-forex-exchange-services

https://web.archive.org/web/20190106181057/https:/www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-wins-coveted-contract-to-deploy-its-forex-exchange-services

https://www.ebix.com/press-release/ebix-wins-coveted-contract-to-deploy-its-forex-exchange-services
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


Why did Ebix announce material information regarding the Dubai Forex Exchange Services 


contract then remove the announcement from its website? 


At what stage are the contract negotiations with DubaiAirport, if they are ongoing at all? 


We view this as at best misleading, and at worst a poorly conceived attempt to prop up the company’s share 


price. Similar can be said for the about turns in stock splits and repetitive buyback announcements. Ebix and 


Robin Raina echo the behavior of stock promoters with an inability to justify their behavior. 


Patriot National – Near Miss 
In the wake of Ebix’s ongoing acquisitions its poignant going through the company’s recent history with poorly 


researched acquisition attempts, exposing basic flaws in corporate due diligence.  


Long term investors will remember the attempted acquisition of Patriot National by Ebix through mid to late 


2016. This M&A target came as a result of Robin Raina and/or Ebix’s incessant nature to attempt to expand, 


irrespective of the health of the acquisition target.  


Patriot National unwound amidst revelations that its largest customer was a related party owned by its CEO 


which Patriot National was supporting financially. Ebix shareholders dodged a bullet, as Patriot National 


ultimately refused the deal despite Ebix sweetening it. 


 
Figure 4 – Ebix press release – Jun 15, 20166 


 
Figure 5 – Ebix press release – Aug 1, 20167 


The deal failed in no way because of Robin Raina and/or Ebix’s conduct or good business acumen. Rather it 


was because the board of Patriot National appeared to be engaging in misconduct and were holding out for an 


alleged better offer which never materialized. Purely by chance EBIX shareholders were saved from such a 


failure and poor business acumen and a lack of due diligence. 


To better understand the bullet dodged by Ebix, it is important to understand the nature of the deception that 


occurred at Patriot National, and the timeline of events. Investors would be wise to pay attention to the 


terminology utilized used in a promotional way many times by Ebix Inc.  





                                                                 
6 https://www.ebix.com/PressRelease/PressReleasebyID/368  
7 https://www.ebix.com/PressRelease/PressReleasebyID/368  



https://www.ebix.com/PressRelease/PressReleasebyID/368

https://www.ebix.com/PressRelease/PressReleasebyID/368
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


On June 15, 2016 Ebix announced it’s offering to acquire Patriot National for a ~40% premium, rationalizing it 


through the same phrases paraded out multiple times a year on questionable acquisitions.  


 
Figure 6 Ebix Press Release – Jun 15, 20168 


On August 1, 2016, Patriot National announced the formation of a special committee of its own independent 


directors to consider the offer, and the improvement of Ebix’s offer to reflect an enterprise value of US$450m. 


Two weeks later on August 15, 2016, Patriot National announced that the special committee were in their final 


stages of consideration and that Ebix’s due diligence was expected to be complete by August 31, 2016. 


 
Figure 7 Ebix Press Release – Jun 15, 20169 


After the resignation of Patriot National director Austin J. Shanfelter, Patriot National’s special committee 


recommended a rejection of Ebix’s offer10, stating: 


 
Figure 8 – Patriot press release – Nov 8, 2016 


                                                                 
8 https://www.ebix.com/PressRelease/PressReleasebyID/368  
9 https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/patriot-nationals-special-committee-of-the-board-closes-in-on-strategic-
opportunity-decision-company-reports-second-quarter-2016-results-300313217.html  
10 https://www.marketwatch.com/press-release/patriot-national-rejects-475-million-offer-from-ebix-inc-2016-11-08  



https://www.ebix.com/PressRelease/PressReleasebyID/368

https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/patriot-nationals-special-committee-of-the-board-closes-in-on-strategic-opportunity-decision-company-reports-second-quarter-2016-results-300313217.html

https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/patriot-nationals-special-committee-of-the-board-closes-in-on-strategic-opportunity-decision-company-reports-second-quarter-2016-results-300313217.html

https://www.marketwatch.com/press-release/patriot-national-rejects-475-million-offer-from-ebix-inc-2016-11-08
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


Note that by this time Ebix supposedly had finished its due diligence into Patriot National and presumably found 


everything to be in order considering the company had not retracted its offer. 


In March 2017 Patriot National came clean and disclosed that 59% of its total fee income and fee income from 


related party for the 9 months ended September 30, 2016 were from a CEO owned related-party called 


Guarantee Insurance Company (GIC) and that the company would be contributing US$30m to GIC to meet 


regulatory capital requirements. This was under the guise of extending the service contract for Patriot National. 


 
Figure 9 – Patriot National 8K – Mar 3, 201711 


This relationship was not exactly a closely-held secret: 


▪ A simple search of Patriot National’s 10-Q’s would clearly spell out the company’s close relationship with 


and reliance upon, GIG entities.  


▪ Patriot National and the GIG entities both operated from the same building at 401 East Las Olas Blvd. in 


downtown Fort Lauderdale. 


▪ A significant amount of the Patriot National board of directors previously served on the board of GIG. 


 
Figure 10 Patriot National 10Q Extract – Q3 201612 


                                                                 
11 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1619917/000119312517069888/d351246d8k.htm  
12 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1619917/000156459016029161/pn-10q_20160930.htm  



https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1619917/000119312517069888/d351246d8k.htm

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1619917/000156459016029161/pn-10q_20160930.htm
Viceroy Research Group 7 viceroyresearch.org 


This marked the beginning of the end for Patriot National, with the company later delisting. Patriot National’s 


stock began sliding in 2016 further impacted by related party payments between Patriot National and GIG 


entities in order to meet capital requirements. 


Of greater relevance today is that is that Robin Raina and Ebix appeared negligent in their 


duties by apparently skimming an offer for Patriot National when a rudimentary analysis 


of the company’s accounts would show a glaring risk.  


Our interpretation of the above is either: 


1. Ebix was aware of Patriot National’s reliance on financially burdened related party entities and thought this 


was an acceptable risk, or; 


2. Ebix somehow was unaware of this relationship indicating extremely weak due diligence. 


Either way, we view this as emblematic of Ebix’s acquisition strategy, one that apparently only Robin Raina has 


control over, and seems to exercise limited judgement and due diligence over.  


Many companies rely on acquisition sprees to distract from poor underlying business performance hoping an 


aggressive strategy will distract investors. Ebix’s recent acquisitions fit this model: untelegraphed acquisitions 


with little or no synergistic value used to mask poor organic growth in core operations.  


Did Ebix’s due diligence uncover the reliance of Patriot National on GIG group entities?  


If so, why did Ebix not withdraw its proposal and why was this considered an acceptable 


acquisition target? 


With 47 days between the announcement of the initial interest and entering ‘serious discussions’ Ebix Inc had 


sufficient time to conduct basic level due diligence that would have clearly shown Patriot National was high risk 


and any acquisition should be avoid. Instead Ebix progress the matter to serious discussions.  


Ebix has subsequently announced 23 further acquisitions, all demonstrating similar promotional language to the 


Patriot acquisition. 


Ebix’s new Big 4 Big 5 Auditor 
After markets were shut on October 5, 2018, Ebix announced the replacement of its auditor, Cherry Bekaert, to 


Indian based T R Chadra & Co, causing a ~20% collapse in its stock price. This event purportedly followed a 


competitive selection process held by Ebix’s Audit Committee which was necessitated by growing Indian 


revenues and asset concentration: 


 
Figure 11 Extract from Ebix 8K – Oct 5, 2018 


In a possible attempt to save face, Ebix issued a press release just days later announcing that this was an interim 


measure, and that the Audit Committee had decided it would engage a Big 4 audit firm the following year. This 


is obscure to us, as we don’t understand how Big 4 firms were apparently not considered in Ebix’s competitive
Viceroy Research Group 8 viceroyresearch.org 


selection process as disclosed in its 8K on October 5, and why this exercise has to be repeated in the very short 


term. 


 
Figure 12 Extract from Ebix press release – Oct 9, 2018 


In what appears to be a poorly-timed April Fools’ Day joke, Ebix announced on December 28, 2018, that it had 


engaged the 5th largest US audit firm (6th Largest Globally13), RSM, to audit its consolidated group accounts in 


2019, necessitated due to the large concentration of revenues and assets in India. As of 2016, RSM was not 


within the Top 10 Indian audit firms by revenue or no. of audits undertaken14. 


To add insult to injury, RSM appears to have been appointed following the exact same 


‘competitive selection process’ that lead to the appointment of T R Chadra & Co.  


 
Figure 13 Extract from Ebix 8K – Dec 28, 201815 


The web Ebix appears to have spun is catching up to the Company as governance, performance and acquisitions 


are entirely incomprehensible. 


Conclusion 
In light of the discrepancies highlighted above, and in our previous reports, we have elected to write publicly to 


RSM US LLC and the relevant regulatory authorities regarding EBIX’s disclosures, misleading statements and 


aggressive accounting.  


We believe Ebix have either intentionally and/or negligently issued false press releases regarding the completion 


of tenders and contracts. We struggle to find an explanation for why Ebix released this announcement except 


for the obvious reason of promoting the stock. 


We believe management’s disregard for corporate governance; lack of transparency and due diligence 


exaggerates Ebix’s already high level of investment risk. We will cover these themes in greater detail over the 


coming weeks. 








                                                                 
13 https://www.rsm.global/india/about-us  
14 http://www.primedatabasegroup.com/newsroom/PR-336.pdf  
15 https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/814549/000081454918000053/form8kaccountantchangedec2.htm  



https://www.rsm.global/india/about-us

http://www.primedatabasegroup.com/newsroom/PR-336.pdf

https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/814549/000081454918000053/form8kaccountantchangedec2.htm
