Citron Top 10 on Zillow July 24, 2015 Page 1 of 5 





 
July 24, 2015 





Top 10 Reasons Why Zillow Cracks $40 
Within a Year 


TrueCar and Bankrate Tell Us how Wall Street Values Lead 
Generation Businesses 


 
Citron Research has been skeptical of Zillow (NASDAQ:Z) for some time 
now.  We first reported on the company in 2012, with frequent updates.  
Three years later, with no real profits to show and endless amounts of 
insider selling, plus round after round of lowered guidance, Citron believes 
that this sucker is finally ready to break, as the company has run out of 
tricks and finally has to show profits.   
 
The only question is how low will it go?   
 
Citron suggests that $40 is a fair starting point.  That would afford Zillow a 
market cap of $2.5 billion and have it trade at a generous 4x 2015 revenue.  
Instead of going through a long boring report, and in honor of the 
retirement of David Letterman, Citron will present the:
Citron Top 10 on Zillow July 24, 2015 Page 2 of 5 








Top 10 Reasons Why Zillow is Going To 


Trade Below $40 In The Next Year 





1. Zillow is a lead generation company for real estate 


agents and mortgage brokers … nothing more. 





So it will ultimately trade like a lead generation company.  Look at TrueCar 
(TRUE), which now trades at 2.5x revenue or Bankrate (RATE) which trades 
at 2x revenue.  There are fixed multiples for these types of companies and 
Zillow should be grateful for the $40 target -- which is still more than 4 X its 
2015 revenues. 
 


2. In what Citron believes is the “jump-the-shark” 


moment … the CEO wants investors to view the 


company in decades. 





In this week’s press release outlining a preferred stock split, CEO Rascoff 
states, “Our Board, management, and the shareholders who have chosen 
to invest in Zillow, view the company in terms of decades, not quarters or 
years.”   
 
Citron wonders:  “Why not in centuries or millennia??” 
 


3. Despite wanting investors to wait for decades, the 


CEO is dumping 





Over the past 12 months Rascoff himself has sold $13.7 million worth of 
stock.  Guess his patience doesn’t run for decades. 
 


In fact, in the most recent proxy, Mr. Rascoff owns zero shares of Z stock 
– all his ownership is represented by unexercised options.  Every exercise 
has resulted in immediate sale of the underlying stock.
Citron Top 10 on Zillow July 24, 2015 Page 3 of 5 








4. The CFO has left the building.   





Chad Cohen has been with Zillow for 9 years … but just as they are 
supposed to “dominate” real estate … he leaves. ???? 
 


5. The company is net losing customers.   





In a recent web scraping (go sue us) Trulia agents were down around 7% in 
the quarter on Zillow was only up around 2%  Combined agent count was 
down 2-3K from the last time the company reported … Let’s see if Zillow 
states this metric on their next call.  
 


6. Zillow can never be acquired at its current share 


price -- as validated by the recent Yelp “No Sale”. 





Somehow bulls have decided that they might not want to wait decades and 
have floated the rumor of a possible takeout.  Despite having a higher 
quality business than Zillow, and with larger TAM – Yelp could not find a 
buyer.   
 
Internet Giants Do Not Want To Operate Boiler Rooms -- Plain and Simple.  
Yelp’s current market cap is $2.4 billion - that would put Zillow at $40. 
 


7. It Ain’t Getting Any Better! 





Zillow has been unable to make a real profit in one of the largest real estate 
booms in history -- with less competition than it faces now.   Besides 
promises, management has never discussed HOW the business will improve 
in the future.  After all – how many times can you cold call the same pool of 
real estate agents?
Citron Top 10 on Zillow July 24, 2015 Page 4 of 5 








8. Analysts have lost credibility on this name. 





For years analysts have consistently lowered guidance and raised price 
targets on Zillow.  In the latest 12 months analysts have finally raised 
estimates as the company has lowered.  The sell side has lost all credibility 
on this name and Wall Street knows it. 
 
Case-in-point: It should be noted that the analyst team at Goldman who 
has a buy on Zillow is the same group that put a $22 target on TRUE in May 
of this year.  
 


9. Competition is only getting stronger. 





Unlike Yelp, which completely dominates the online review space, Zillow is 
facing stiff competition from the many VC backed firms that are helping 
realtors connect with customers.  Just go to any real estate conference – 
Realtors know that Zillow is sooo 1.0.  Not to mention -- Murdoch! 
 


10. Inventory Inventory Inventory 





Zillow has been forced to cut deals with national real estate brand 
operators for “listing protection”.  These have cut deeply into the amount 
of inventory (ad space on listings) available to sell.  Needless to say, a good 
part of their quality inventory is unavailable for sale, which lowers ROI on 
what is left.  This trend is self-perpetuating.  Less inventory = less leads.  
Blocked Inventory = lower quality leads. 
 


$40 a share equals $2.5 billion, which is still a lot of 


money. 





For those of you who live in VC/Internet world and think that $2.5 billion is 
“chump change” we remind you that $40 a share would make Zillow worth 
the price of the Seattle Seahwaks + Seattle Mariners with enough money 
left over to help bring back the Supersonics.   
 
All this for a company who has never generated any real net income.
Citron Top 10 on Zillow July 24, 2015 Page 5 of 5 








  Conclusion  
Zillow spends a ton of money on consumer advertising because Wall Street 
has indulged it in the hype-driven story that it was going to reshape Real 
Estate.   
 
But the true nature of its business becomes more clear every day, along 
with the actual business relationship between real estate agents and their 
listings.  
 
Cautious Investing to All.
