Viceroy Research Group 1 viceroyresearch.org 


Athenex – Big trouble in little Chongqing 
Not only is the factory in the wrong place, it ’s  not built yet  


November 20, 2019 – On the ground investigation of Athenex’s Chongqing factory 


show that the Athenex’s new API plant is not located in the Chongqing 


International Bio-City, and is still heavily under construction. This deception 


extends to Chinese press releases.  


The site visits were conducted on the week ending November 15, 2019, several 


months after the announcement of its “completion” by Athenex. 


▪ The factory is not located in the Chongqing International Bio-City 


development, but some 25 miles away near Maliuzui toll station. 


▪ The building has no sealed road access nor car parking facilities; we were 


unable to ascertain whether basic utilities had been connected but this 


seems unlikely. 


▪ Everyone within the facility is still wearing hardhats, and the site is still full of 


heavy machinery, including cranes. Equipment has yet to be installed – 


company statements about validation testing in Q4 2019 are false. 


 
Figure 1 Viceroy Investigator photo of Athenex “completed” API facility 


The announcement by Athenex on September 23, 2019 claiming the facility to be complete and in the midst 


of a validation batch paints a pretty picture, which is completely false. 


 
Figure 2 – Athenex Press Release – September 23, 2019 


To be clear: there is no completed API Facility. This fraud mirrors the various sham 


businesses Athenex’s directors have orchestrated in the past. 





Athenex, Inc.


Exchange NASDAQ


Ticker ATNX


Shares Outstanding m 77.3           


Share Price* US$ 11.50         


Market Cap US$m 888.9         


Net Cash US$m 78.7           


NCI US$m 11.7           


EV US$m 798.5         


NTA US$m 131.6         


Licensing Revenue US$m 87.2           


Revenue Multiple X 1.0              


Viceroy Valuation US$m 218.8         


Viceroy Price Target US$ 2.83           


Downside % -75%
* As at close of market - Oct 22, 2019


NB: LTM/balance from Jun 30, 2019
Viceroy Research Group 2 viceroyresearch.org 


On November 19, 2019 Athenex announced the title of their presentation at the San Antonio Breast Cancer 


Symposium. This is a blatant strategy to pump the price of their stock by changing the title of the presentation 


which has had no change in content to the one announced on September 23, 2019 (ironically, the same date 


Athenex’s Chongqing plant was allegedly “completed”), which was submitted in June 2019. 


 
Figure 13 1,2 


In summary: 


1. Abstracts were due by July 8, 2019. 


2. Athenex’s abstract title was announced on September 23, 2019 


3. Athenex changed their abstract title on November 19, 2019 


4. Athenex is not presenting in the Ongoing Clinical Trials category, and therefore cannot have had new 


information since July 8, 2019. 


Athenex’s SABCS presentation is the same as the one announced on September 23. RBC analyst Kennen 


MacKay’s reiteration of an outperform on a “SABCS win” sounds ridiculous considering that this is the same 


data that prompted such an unremarkable title 2 months earlier caused the collapse of the stock.  


Of course, when Athenex originally announced the presentation, the issues we highlighted in our reports had 


not yet been brought to light. 


We continue to believe investors are being duped by Athenex management through virtually identical 


charades orchestrated at their previous failed ventures, such as Sino Forest. 


We have annexed an extended summary of all of Viceroy’s findings, and all of our pictures of Athenex’s actual, 


unfinished, API plant. 


You can find our previous reports on Athenex on www.viceroyresearch.org 


 
1 https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/09/23/1919022/0/en/Athenex-to-Present-at-the-2019-San-Antonio-Breast-
Cancer-Symposium.html  
2 https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/11/19/1949506/0/en/Athenex-Announces-Key-Company-Activities-at-San-
Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html 



http://www.viceroyresearch.org/

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/09/23/1919022/0/en/Athenex-to-Present-at-the-2019-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/09/23/1919022/0/en/Athenex-to-Present-at-the-2019-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/11/19/1949506/0/en/Athenex-Announces-Key-Company-Activities-at-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/11/19/1949506/0/en/Athenex-Announces-Key-Company-Activities-at-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html
Viceroy Research Group 3 viceroyresearch.org 


Attention: Whistleblowers 


Viceroy encourage any parties with information pertaining to misconduct within Athenex, its affiliates or any other entity to 


file a report with the appropriate regulatory body.  


We also understand first-hand the retaliation whistleblowers sometimes face for championing these issues. Where possible, 


Viceroy is happy act as intermediaries in providing information to regulators and reporting information in the public interest 


in order to protect the identities of whistleblowers. 


You can contact the Viceroy team via email on viceroy@viceroyresearch.com.  


About Viceroy 


Viceroy Research are an investigative financial research group. As global markets become increasingly opaque and complex 


– and traditional gatekeepers and safeguards often compromised – investors and shareholders are at greater risk than ever 


of being misled or uninformed by public companies and their promoters and sponsors. Our mission is to sift fact from fiction 


and encourage greater management accountability through transparency in reporting and disclosure by public companies 


and overall improve the quality of global capital markets. 


Important Disclaimer – Please read before continuing 


This report has been prepared for educational purposes only and expresses our opinions. This report and any statements 


made in connection with it are the authors’ opinions, which have been based upon publicly available facts, field research, 


information, and analysis through our due diligence process, and are not statements of fact. All expressions of opinion are 


subject to change without notice, and we do not undertake to update or supplement any reports or any of the information, 


analysis and opinion contained in them. We believe that the publication of our opinions about public companies that we 


research is in the public interest. We are entitled to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. 


You can access any information or evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report from information in 


the public domain.  


To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from 


public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered 


herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. We have a good-faith belief in 


everything we write; however, all such information is presented "as is," without warranty of any kind – whether express or 


implied.  


In no event will we be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any information available on this report. Think 


critically about our opinions and do your own research and analysis before making any investment decisions. We are not 


registered as an investment advisor in any jurisdiction. By downloading, reading or otherwise using this report, you agree to 


do your own research and due diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities discussed herein, 


and by doing so, you represent to us that you have sufficient investment sophistication to critically assess the information, 


analysis and opinions in this report. You should seek the advice of a security professional regarding your stock transactions.  


This document or any information herein should not be interpreted as an offer, a solicitation of an offer, invitation, marketing 


of services or products, advertisement, inducement, or representation of any kind, nor as investment advice or a 


recommendation to buy or sell any investment products or to make any type of investment, or as an opinion on the merits 


or otherwise of any particular investment or investment strategy. 


Any examples or interpretations of investments and investment strategies or trade ideas are intended for illustrative and 


educational purposes only and are not indicative of the historical or future performance or the chances of success of any 


particular investment and/or strategy. As of the publication date of this report, you should assume that the authors have a 


direct or indirect interest/position in all stocks (and/or options, swaps, and other derivative securities related to the stock) 


and bonds covered herein, and therefore stand to realize monetary gains in the event that the price of either declines.  


The authors may continue transacting directly and/or indirectly in the securities of issuers covered on this report for an 


indefinite period and may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of their initial recommendation. 


 



mailto:viceroy@viceroyresearch.com
Viceroy Research Group 4 viceroyresearch.org 


1. Bio-City Introduction 


Investigators visited the Athenex site at Chongqing International Bio-City, only to find Athenex was not located 


at the site and that the actual building was far from completion. 


Athenex claim to have completed this facility on September 23, 2019 and had prior expedited press releases 


showing progress and finalization at the facility. The company is also mentioned in several Chinese press releases 


and news articles as having its API manufacturing operations in the Chongqing International Bio-City,  


Chongqing International Bio-City is a large industrial complex located within a Chinese Government 


development, apparently housing several bio-medical companies and factories. 


 
Figure 3 Extract from cqcb.com – Article dated October 25, 20193 


Chinese state-sponsored media have mentioned Athenex is located within the site as does the website for the 


development4.   


There are several discrepancies regarding when the site was actually completed: 


▪ The website for Chongqing International Bio-City claims that Athenex’s “main API project” was completed 


on May 14, 2019, a full 4 months before management made the same claim.   


▪ New site cq.ifeng.com claimed the project was completed on September 19, 2019. 


▪ An Athenex press release claims the site was completed on September 23, 2019. 


All of these were at odds with on the ground research conducted, which shows the API facility is not only not 


within Chongqing International Bio City, but is also not completed. 


 
3 https://www.cqcb.com/hot/2019-10-25/1936267_pc.html  
4 http://www.cqbiocity.com/ml/pc/news/detail.html?id=117&columnsId=10  



https://www.cqcb.com/hot/2019-10-25/1936267_pc.html

http://www.cqbiocity.com/ml/pc/news/detail.html?id=117&columnsId=10
Viceroy Research Group 5 viceroyresearch.org 


2. Discrepancies in company announcements, lack of detail 


The announcement of the site’s completion on Athenex’s website had no photos or links to other news. The 


cq.ifeng.com article only has a shot of several people walking through white hallways and an Athenex sign. 


 
Figure 4 Extract from cq.ifeng.com5 - Dated October 20,2019 


Shenzhen China’s government website also show pictures of the entry to the facility dated 25 October 2019. 


Readers will note that there is not even a ramp into the front door, let alone roads into the facility. 


 
Figure 5 Extract from sz.gov.cn6 - Dated October 20,2019 


Readers also note the Athenex sign inside the facility. 


 
5 https://cq.ifeng.com/a/20190919/7739486_0.shtml  
6 http://www.sz.gov.cn/cn/zjsz/fwts_1_3/tzdt_1/201909/t20190925_18233170.htm 



https://cq.ifeng.com/a/20190919/7739486_0.shtml

http://www.sz.gov.cn/cn/zjsz/fwts_1_3/tzdt_1/201909/t20190925_18233170.htm
Viceroy Research Group 6 viceroyresearch.org 


The photos of lab facilities are stock or promotional photos used in almost every announcement about the 


Chongqing Bio City, and photos of Athenex’s actual site show there is not even a road to facility to get this 


equipment inside. 


 
Figure 6 Extracts from cqcb.com7 - dated November 20, 2019 


For such a large development, almost no information is available about the Chongqing site. No address for the 


site could be found in any filings by Athenex, nor on any Chinese press releases about the company. Considering 


the development zone is 23 square miles in size this is strange.  


In addition, there are very few photos of the site either under construction or complete. Note that the photo 


below of the “opening ceremony” clearly displays the date, September 19, 2019 with a clearly scaffolded building 


in the background. 


  
Figure 7 Extract from cqcb.com article - dated October 25, 2019 


We had previously written this off as a miscommunication but following our on the ground checks we now see 


this as a clear indication that the site is still not complete. 





 
7 https://www.cqcb.com/hot/2019-10-25/1936267_pc.html 



https://www.cqcb.com/hot/2019-10-25/1936267_pc.html
Viceroy Research Group 7 viceroyresearch.org 


4. Putting things into context 


Investigators visited the Chongqing International Bio-City on the week ending November 15, 2019, and were 


informed that Athenex’s pharmaceutical base was not there. Here is one of our photos of the Bio-City site for 


reference: 


 
Figure 8 Investigator photographs of Chongqing Bio-City (a.k.a. “not Athenex’s API plant”) vs cqcb.com article  


Investigators were advised that the actual Athenex API site was near Maliuzui toll station, roughly 25 miles away 


from Bio-City.  


Investigators visited this site and confirmed that the main investor was “Chongqing Maliu Development Zone 


Investment Co.”, the state-owned enterprise referred to in Athenex filings.  


Here’s what the site looks like: 


 
Figure 9 – Athenex API facility park
Viceroy Research Group 8 viceroyresearch.org 


There are no roads, no active tenants, and everyone inside this facility is still wearing hardhats. We find it 


difficult to comprehend how Athenex is currently conducting validation drug runs in this facility. 


In case you are not convinced: enquiries made with employees of nearby pharmaceutical entities confirmed that 


this was the new factory for “Chongqing Taihao Pharmaceutical Company”, Athenex’s subsidiary. Also, our 


investigator found the same Athenex ramp-less entrance which was published in the Shenzhen China 


government website: 


 
Figures 10 & 11 Viceroy Investigator Photographs vs Athenex
Viceroy Research Group 9 viceroyresearch.org 


No-one could reasonably claim that the facility in the photos below is complete given it appears to be a shell. 


We do not anticipate that Athenex will be manufacturing APIs, or even validation batches at the Chongqing 


factory anytime soon.  


 
Figure 12 Viceroy Investigator Photograph 


5. Investors beware 


Shareholders: you have been taken for a ride, once again. There is no completed API factory. It is not in 


Chongqing International Bio City. Validation batch will not be completed this year. 


Athenex management have played investors in the same way they have played investors from all of their 


collective previous frauds. Pull back the veil of pretty site pictures of a veneer lobby and staged factory openings 


and take a step back to see the full picture. 


This is the same management team spoon feeding the investment community pharmaceutical data, which we 


have already expressed our concerns about. 


We have annexed our investigators full photoset of the Athenex construction site.
Viceroy Research Group 10 viceroyresearch.org 


6. Addressing Announcement on Nov 19, 2019 


We see management’s recent announcement of Athenex’s presentation at the San Antonio Breast Cancer 


Symposium is a blatant stock promotion move.  


On November 19, 2019 Athenex announced the title of their presentation at the San Antonio Breast Cancer 


Symposium. This is a blatant strategy to pump the price of their stock by changing the title of the presentation 


which has had no change in content to the one announced on September 23, 2019 (ironically, the same date 


Athenex’s Chongqing plant was allegedly .  


 
Figure 13 8,9 


The original title for the presentation was the title of an abstract dated May 26, 2019 on the Journal of Clinical 


Oncology website. 


 
Figure 1410 





 
8 https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/09/23/1919022/0/en/Athenex-to-Present-at-the-2019-San-Antonio-Breast-
Cancer-Symposium.html  
9 https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/11/19/1949506/0/en/Athenex-Announces-Key-Company-Activities-at-San-
Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html 
10 https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.TPS1116  



https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/09/23/1919022/0/en/Athenex-to-Present-at-the-2019-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/09/23/1919022/0/en/Athenex-to-Present-at-the-2019-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/11/19/1949506/0/en/Athenex-Announces-Key-Company-Activities-at-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://www.globenewswire.com/news-release/2019/11/19/1949506/0/en/Athenex-Announces-Key-Company-Activities-at-San-Antonio-Breast-Cancer-Symposium.html

https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.TPS1116
Viceroy Research Group 11 viceroyresearch.org 


When viewing the submission rules for the symposium it is clear that the only thing Athenex has changed is the 


title of the presentation: abstracts for the symposium were due on July 8, 2019. 


 
Figure 1511 


We can also rule out the possibility that Athenex is publishing under the ongoing clinical trials category and that 


new data has come to light as these are not subject to embargo policies, and Athenex’s is on the list of 


embargoed abstracts12. 


 
Figure 16 SABCS Abstract Preparation 


In summary: 


5. Abstracts were due by July 8, 2019. 


6. Athenex’s abstract title was announced on September 23, 2019 


7. Athenex changed their abstract title on November 19, 2019 


8. Athenex is not presenting in the Ongoing Clinical Trials category, and therefore cannot have had new 


information since July 8, 2019. 


Athenex’s SABCS presentation is the same as the one announced on September 23. RBC analyst Kennen 


MacKay’s reiteration of an outperform on a “SABCS win” sounds ridiculous considering that this is the same data 


that prompted such an unremarkable title 2 months earlier. Of course, when Athenex originally announced the 


presentation, the issues we highlighted in our reports had not yet been brought to light. 














 
11 http://www.sabcs.org/2019-SABCS-sup-sup-/Call-for-Abstracts/Abstract-Preparation 
12 https://www.sabcs.org/Portals/SABCS2016/2019%20SABCS/Embargoed%20Abstracts.pdf?ver=2019-11-19-122156-357  



http://www.sabcs.org/2019-SABCS-sup-sup-/Call-for-Abstracts/Abstract-Preparation

https://www.sabcs.org/Portals/SABCS2016/2019%20SABCS/Embargoed%20Abstracts.pdf?ver=2019-11-19-122156-357
Viceroy Research Group 12 viceroyresearch.org 


7. Annexure A: Photos of Site Visit
Viceroy Research Group 13 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 14 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 15 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 16 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 17 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 18 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 19 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 20 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 21 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 22 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 23 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 24 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 25 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 26 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 27 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 28 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 29 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 30 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 31 viceroyresearch.org
Viceroy Research Group 32 viceroyresearch.org 


8. Annexure B – An extended summary 


Management – A Company of Rogues 


▪ Several members of Athenex’s management team have a history of what appears to be either gross 


incompetence in fiduciary duties or clever mismanagement in infamous frauds internationally, 


collectively resulting in billions of dollars of write-offs including Sino Forest, Suntech, GCL Silicon/Poly, and 


China Lumena. 


▪ Athenex directors have acted as on sellers and drop-shippers to rip off Athenex shareholders with margin-


stealing exercises through their investment entity: Avalon Global. Cash has consistently exited the 


business via similar related-party deals.  


▪ Breaches in corporate governance principles: Athenex directors screwed investors by purchasing CDE for 


themselves and flipping it to Athenex for a 262% profit in 6 weeks. The company failed to report the 


circumstances of the transaction in any meaningful way. 


▪ In another instance, Directors pocketed a 3,300% profit by flipping an “anti-cancer mechanism” license 


to Athenex for US$5m, for which they paid just US$150,000 just 6 months earlier.  


▪ Directors award themselves millions of dollars worth of stock at no cost through the issuance of 


promissory notes that are cancelled on a time-vested basis.  


▪ Athenex directors have an uncanny ability to avoid any disclosure or reference to their involvement in 


historical fraud or related party deals. It's Viceroy's view that if investors were aware, they would not 


have bought Athenex in the first place.    


▪ Our investigations have found ties between Athenex subsidiary Polymed and its management team to the 


largest taxol smuggling ring in history, Yunnan Hande, which resulted in 50 arrests and 32 imprisonments. 


Taxol is a key ingredient in anti-cancer drug paclitaxel and its harvesting is heavily controlled. 





Oraxol – Flagship or Shipwreck? 


Athenex has been reliant on the marketed prospect of Oraxol in order to obtain access to capital, having 


received going concern qualifications from Deloitte since 2016 and current yearly cash-burn rates of ~$100m. 


The company has raised ~US$360m in equity and US$80m in debt since 2017. Even if R&D costs are removed 


from the equation, Athenex’s licensing and consulting segments are operationally loss-making.  


▪ After consultation with industry specialists and oncologists, Viceroy believes Athenex’s flagship paclitaxel 


drug, Oraxol, cannot compete with the current standard of care available in the USA.   


▪ Oraxol’s clinical trials control dosing regimen of IV paclitaxel as monotherapy is an outdated treatment 


schedule dating from the 1990’s.  


▪ Oraxol’s marketed quality of life improvements are redundant. Patients will still require IV treatment/post-


treatment, alongside gastrointestinal complications from oral treatment.  


▪ Oraxol’s side effects appear more severe than those of the current US standard of care, Abraxane, and may 


require hospitalization due to their life-threatening nature. Reported adverse effects grade 4 neutropenia, 


grade 3 vomiting and unspecified GI complications were more severe than the IV paclitaxel group.  


▪ None of Oraxol’s clinical trials have included a US patient component. While the FDA does allow data 


overseas trials, these results are treated with much higher scrutiny. Viceroy believe ATNX studies are being 


conducted in South America due to a lower local standard of care: US patients could not be enticed to trial 


a drug against an outdated active control regimen.   


▪ Athenex’s Orascovery program – key to its marketed value proposition – was purchased for just US$7.5m 


upfront in 2011 after its previous owner experienced decade-long development delays with little headway 


into development. The Orascovery platform is busted.
Viceroy Research Group 33 viceroyresearch.org 


▪ Through consultation with experts, we believe Athenex’s pursuit of the 505b(2) pathway for Oraxol will be 


hampered by the fact that its paclitaxel delivery mechanism, HM30181A, has never been approved by the 


FDA. The FDA may require Athenex to pursue a further NDA for HM30181A. 


▪ Viceroy have identified what we believe to be Intellectual Property Theft from UK company Immunocore.  


XLifeSc’s flagship technology (in which ATNX put US$35m upfront) may already be owned by GSK and 


further along the development pipeline: GSK’s solution is currently undergoing phase 2 trials in the US. 


▪ With a BONUS round of issues in Buffalo where Athenex issues are mired with State issues of fraud and 


corruption. Although Athenex won’t find that being an issue, as investors can see with Viceroy’s Zhang’s 


“Rinse-&-Repeat” Bankruptcy Playbook.” 


Independent Review of Oraxol Data 


Viceroy commissioned a report from a highly reputable, independent biotech consulting firm into the 


prospective NDA approval for Oraxol. This report is available on our website  


▪ Consistent with previous expert opinions we have received in relation to Oraxol, this report concludes that 


“Oraxol will likely not secure approval following Athenex NDA submission in 1Q 2020.” 


▪ Experts refute management claims in Q3 earnings call that “FDA previously provided positive feedback to 


Athenex that it would accept the results of this one pivotal trial for license application in the U.S. if the 


primary endpoint is met”, noting that there must also be an acceptable benefit/risk profile. 


▪ Our Experts note that the treatment regiment for the IV Paclitaxel control group is a high-dose, three week 


regiment. This regimen has tested as inferior to the low-dose, weekly treatment. This would have created 


a much higher threshold for Oraxol’s primary endpoint. 


- It’s noteworthy that oral paclitaxel competitors, such as Daewa Pharmaceutical Co., have not shied 


away from this low-dose, weekly regimen as a higher threshold control. 


▪ Differing outcomes in safety profile of Oraxol, when compared to IV paclitaxel, “is likely due to the delivery 


mechanism and formulation which includes the novel, unapproved PGP inhibitor HM30181A”. Our 


consultants believe this may prompt further studies into the Oraxol delivery method, consistent with our 


prior reporting about adverse effects. 


▪ The report also highlights issues in relation to the rarity of the FDA approving drugs with no USA clinical 


patient data. This presents a greater question mark for Athenex, who have already announced plans to 


commercialize this in the USA. 


▪ Experts have noted Athenex’s absence in providing any detail relating to Oraxol’s adverse effects, in 


particular those effects which are inconsistent with IV paclitaxel, such as GI complications. 


▪ Viceroy elected to file all our findings to the SEC, FDA and New York Governor due to the highly irregular 


corporate governance and business practices committed by the company. We note the company have 


failed to address or deny one issue, despite repeated requests to identify one single falsity.  


Factory Shutdown 


▪ An investigation into Chinese regulatory notes from the Ministry of Emergency Management and Polymed’s 


history of objectionable site inspections by Chinese regulators and the FDA lead us to believe that Polymed’s 


manufacturing facility suspension not voluntary. In any event, Athenex’s Chongqing manufacturing facility 


does not manufacture anything. 


▪ Viceroy dismantles photoshopped Polymed advertisements for its facilities and expose chemical 


manufacturing facilities we believe are non-existent or outsourced. 


Collectively, our research, informed by discussions with industry specialists, leads us to believe that Athenex’s 


Oraxol is obsolete in modern world medicine. Athenex claims to “take pride” in the integrity of its management 


team. This same management team has overseen the evaporation of billions of dollars from shareholder capital 


in past ventures. 


We reiterate our belief that Athenex exists to abuse capital markets and enrich its management through related 


party transactions and licensing deals rather than bring revolutionary drugs into the market.
Viceroy Research Group 34 viceroyresearch.org 


Viceroy value ATNX stock at US$2.83 – a 71% downside –the sum of its tangible book value and 1x 


valuation on its licensing & consulting revenue streams, for the year ending June 30, 2019. With ATNX’s 


questionable license acquisitions and management’s precedent for overstated top line figures in previous 


ventures: this is optimistic. 


Management Rap Sheet – in short 


Johnson Yiu Nam Lau – CEO and Chairman 


• Undisclosed anti-cancer side business Taivex developing compounds in parallel with Athenex, created 


during time at Athenex 


• Owns a share in the Avalon entities:  


o Bought shares in CDE just before Athenex acquired it for a 262% profit in 6 weeks 


o Avalon Polytom flipped the arginase license to Athenex for a 3,300% return 


o Avalon HepaPOC sells galactose meters to Athenex for 10% more than it pays from a 


manufacturer, a margin stealing drop shipping operation 


• Undisclosed ownership of Sinophyto Solutions with Rudolf Kwan a Traditional Chinese Medicine 


company that has only received one shipment with its purpose listed as “investment” 


Rudolf Min-Fun Kwan – Chief Medical Officer 


• Owns a share in ZenRx, a CRO conducting Athenex’s Oraxol clinical trials in New Zealand. ZenRx also 


has several rights to Oraxol in certain geographies 


• Took part in flipping CDE to Athenex 


• Undisclosed ownership of Sinophyto Solutions with Johnson Lau 


Jeffrey Yordon – Chief Operating Officer 


• Former Chief Operating Officer of American Pharmaceutical Partners where he misled investors about 


the prospects and abilities of their Abraxane drug. 


• Formerly of Lyphomed where data related to 35 ANDA studies was tampered with or misrepresented. 


Song-Yi Zhang – Former director and large shareholder 


• Owns a share in the Avalon entities 


o See Johnson Lau 


• Head of audit committee at Suntech when it was pledged fake german bonds, the non-existence of 


which later cause bankruptcy 


• Sold Mandra Forestry to Sino-Forest  on the verge of collapse after multiple loan defaults 


• Sold Sino Polymer to China Lumena; Sino Polymer’s revenues overstated by ~90% 


• Displaced investors in GCL Silicon then siphoned cash out of GCL-Poly with the company’s CEO. 


• Several alumni and employees of investment vehicle, Mandra Capital, embedded at key positions at 


Athenex.  


Manson Fok – Director  


• Owns a share in the Avalon entities 


o See Johnson Lau
Viceroy Research Group 35 viceroyresearch.org 


William Zuo – President, China Operations 


• Likely liaison of taxol smuggling operation out of China into the US, Director of Yunnan Hande’s US 


operations during the relevant time 


• Sold Yunnan Hande US successor company Polymed to Athenex 


• CEO of Inovachem, whose only activity was to purchase goods and services from Polymed with 


investor’s money. 


• CEO of Chinese Operations for Fibrocell for 3 years in which Fibrocell had no Asian operations after a 


Chiense joint venture failed to obtain state approval. 


Simon Pedder – Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Business Development 


• Former CEO of Chelsea Therapeutics whose Northera’s NDA was rejected by the FDA based on lack of 


credibility of its clinical studies. 


• Effectively data mined a short trial to meet drug endpoints where all other trials had failed. 


• Routinely misled investors about Northera’s prospects of success and the FDA’s view of the clinical 


trials. 


Nick Riehle – Former CFO 


• Former CFO of Chelsea Therapeutics, see Simon Pedder. 


• Left Athenex unexpectedly citing retirement, now seeking work as a consultant. 


Xiaojing Wu Li – Senior Vice President, Polymed Therapeutics 


• Sister to Wu XiaoJing, Chairman of Yunnan Hande. Significant investor in Yunnan Hande, the largest 


world’s largest illegal taxol smuggling operation. Remember Athenex are involved and need taxol!! 


• Director, Vice President and Corporate Secretary of Inovachem
