THIS RESEARCH REPORT EXPRESSES SOLELY OUR OPINIONS. Use Bonitas Research LLC’s research opinions at your own risk. You should do your 


own research and due diligence before making any investment decisions, including with respect to the securities discussed herein.  We have a short interest 


in JKS’ stock and stand to realize significant gains in the event that the price of such instrument declines. Because this document has been prepared without 


consideration of any specific clients’ investment objectives, financial situation or needs, no information in this report should be construed as recommending 
or suggesting an investment strategy. Investors should seek their own financial, legal and tax advice in respect of any decision regarding any securities 


discussed herein. This report and its contents are not intended to be and do not constitute or contain any financial product advice as defined in the Australian 


Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).  For convenience purposes only, we have provided a Chinese translation of this report. Please refer to our full disclaimer 


located on the last page of this report. 


























Price  
(as of 3Mar2020 close) 


Market Cap Average Daily Value Traded (90-Day) 





US$  21.90 US$ ~1.0 billion US$   ~25 million 
 


NEW EVIDENCE THAT JKS IS A FRAUD  





In this report, we present new evidence that corroborates our findings in our initial report dated March 4, 


2020 (the “Report”)  that JinkoSolar Holding Co., Ltd. (NYSE:  JKS) (“JinkoSolar” “JKS” or the 


“Company”) is a fraud which fabricated 4Q’19 financial statements and engaged in additional undisclosed 


related party transactions to siphon value from JKS to Chairman Li.  





Regardless, JKS does not generate enough profits from PV module sales to satisfy its US$ 2+ billion net 


debt burden from its past investment misdealing.  JKS’ cash is gone, its profits are fake, and its unscrupulous 


investments have already been made.  JKS was fattened up with 5 separate equity issuances which is why, 


despite its purported profitability, JKS failed to generate free cash flow or pay shareholders cash dividends 


in its 10 year history as a public company.  





4Q RESULTS FLIP FLOP:   On November 19, 2019 JKS was already ~70% of the way through its 4Q’19 


results and gave guidance for the remainder of 4Q’19 for lower ASPs, lower costs, higher margins yet the 


day after our report JKS disclosed significantly better 4Q’19 results from higher ASPs and higher costs 


which generated lower gross margins. WHAT CHANGED ON MARCH 6TH to result in the increased 


4Q’19 guidance besides the publication of our Report?!?  





ZHEJIANG LEASING SECRETLY SOLD TO CHAIRMAN LI:   In November 2016, JKS disposed of 


Zhejiang Leasing at a loss to a claimed independent third party.  As of FYE’18, JKS had collected only 8% 


of the agreed upon total consideration for Zhejiang Leasing (US$ 2 million of US$ 26.4 million (RMB 183 


million)) payable from the supposed independent third-party purchaser.  Evidence reveals that Zhejiang 


Leasing was secretly sold to Chairman Li, another lie by JKS management.    





YANSHAN POWER – ANOTHER UNDISCLOSED RELATED PARTY:  One of the tell-tale signs of a fraud 


is when we look under rocks and continue to find cockroaches.  Evidence shows that Chairman Li tucked 


in valuable solar farm projects into Jinko Power Technology Co., Ltd. (“JinkoPower”) prior to disposal, 


including the use of counterparties secretly connected to Chairman Li.  





JKS’ Response failed to refute any of the primary evidence highlighted in our Report.  In our opinion JKS’ 


response lacks credulity and produced more lies and fictitious excuses to distract investors from our 


findings.   





COMPANY:  JinkoSolar, Inc.     │ NYSE:   JKS 


INDUSTRY:  Solar Module Production
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





2 


- JKS failed to disclose the identity of its unknown subsidiary responsible for the US$ 209 million 
discrepancy between ASIC reported and SEC reported Australian sales.  





- JKS failed to disclose the identity of its “independent third party” who supposedly purchased US$ 42 
million SARS customs duties liabilities from JKS for US$ 1.   





- JKS failed to explain how a JKS appointed special committee agreed it was in the best interest of 
JKS minority shareholders to sell Chairman Li JinkoPower for US$ 454 million, 40% lower than the 


valuation JinkoPower received the next month!   





- JKS claimed Li Xianhua has no affiliation with Xinruixin.  This is a lie.  Chinese filings reveal 
Chairman Li’s brother and JKS co-counder Li Xianhua secretly benefitted from controlling a signficant 


PV glass supplier, Xinruixin via Xinruixin Wire, which once again resulted in value meant for 


shareholders that ultimately made its way to Chairman Li and his brother. 








We reiterate our opinion that JKS is a fraud and its equity is ultimately worthless. 








 
 
Table of Contents: 





1. 4Q RESULTS FLIP FLOP          … p. 3 
2. ZHEJIANG LEASING SECRETLY SOLD TO CHAIRMAN LI     … p. 4 
3. YANSHAN POWER DISPOSED TO CHAIRMAN LI TWO MONTHS AFTER JKS ACQUIRED  … p. 10 
4. WEAK RESPONSE FROM JKS RE: BONITAS REPORT     … p. 13 
5. APPENDIX I: RESPONSE LETTER FROM JKS TO JKS SHAREHOLDERS RE: BONITAS REPORT .p. 17 






















http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





3 





4Q’19 RESULTS FLIP FLOP 





On November 19, 2019, JKS released 3Q’19 results which included an outlook for the remaining 6 weeks of 4Q’19.  


On March 6, 2020, the day after our report, JKS announced 4Q’19 unaudited results which flip-flopped from its 


November 2019 guided ASPs, production costs and gross margins.  To us, the raised guidance is not credible. Instead 


we believe that JKS management simply made up 4Q’19 unaudited results to try and discredit our findings.  





 
Source:  JKS Announcements – November 19, 2019 & March 6, 2020  





On November 19, 2019 JKS was already ~70% of the way through its 4Q’19 results and gave guidance for 4Q’19.  


JKS’s CFO elaborated on JKS’ 4Q’19 guidance during JKS’ 3Q’19 earnings conference call Q&A session that JKS’ 


gross margins are expected to improve in 4Q despite lower ASPs because of improvements to lower production costs. 





 
Source:  JKS 3Q’19 Earnings Call Transcript – November 19, 2019  


 
However, the day after our Report JKS raised its 4Q’19 guidance as a result of higher ASPs and higher costs.   


 
Source:  JKS Announcement – March 6, 2020  


Source: http://ir.jinkosolar.com/news-releases/news-release-details/jinkosolar-raises-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2019-guidance 


 
WHAT CHANGED ON MARCH 6TH to result in the increased 4Q’19 guidance besides the publication of 


our Report?!?  


 
On November 19, 2019 JKS was already ~70% of the way through its 4Q’19 results and gave guidance for the 


remainder of 4Q’19 for lower ASPs, lower costs and higher gross margins, yet the day after our report JKS disclosed 


that 4Q’19 results ended with higher ASPs, higher costs and lower gross margins. 





How did JKS’ business change so significantly in the last 5 weeks of 2019?  Why were investors not made aware of 


JKS’s December 2019 turnaround of fortune until the day after our report?  We think JKS’ March 2020 raised guidance 


announcement for 4Q’19 lacks merit and we encourage JKS’ auditor to increase their due diligence efforts to verify 


the accuracy of JKS’ 2019 reported sales.   











JKS Q4'19 Guidance


Nov 19, 2019 Mar 6, 2020


Solar module shipment 4.2 - 4.4 GW 4.5 - 4.6 GW


Total revenues US$ 1.17 - 1.23 billion US$ 1.35 - 1.38 billion


Gross margin 18.5% to 20.5% 18% to 20%


Explanation


Chinese government policy 


caused project delays - 


developers did not get 


connection approvals and 


land in time


None provided


 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

http://ir.jinkosolar.com/news-releases/news-release-details/jinkosolar-raises-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2019-guidance

http://ir.jinkosolar.com/news-releases/news-release-details/jinkosolar-raises-fourth-quarter-and-full-year-2019-guidance
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





4 





ZHEJIANG LEASING SECRETLY SOLD TO CHAIRMAN LI 





In November 2016, JKS disposed of Zhejiang Leasing Finance Leasing Co., Ltd. (“Zhejiang Leasing”) at a loss.  As 


of FYE’18, JKS had collected only 8% of the agreed upon total consideration for Zhejiang Leasing (US$ 2 million of 


US$ 26.4 million (RMB 183 million)) payable from the independent third-party purchaser.1  





Source: JKS Solar 2018 20-F, page F-45 





Evidence reveals that Zhejiang Leasing was secretly sold to Chairman Li.  Besides being in receipt of a business he 


didn’t pay JKS for, Chairman Li effectively took JKS’ finance lease agreements outside of the group.  In 2017 JKS 


ceased arrangements with Zhejiang Leasing and transferred its finance lease arrangements to supposed independent 


third parties.  Evidence suggests this is a lie. 





On January 17, 2018, Zhejiang Leasing (浙江晶科融资租赁有限公司) changed one Chinese Character in the spelling 


of its name to 浙江晶瑞融资租赁有限公司 (“JinRi Leasing”). 
 


Company Name Change to Zhejiang to JinRi 


 
 Source: https://www.qichacha.com/firm_27e4d4f480dce17f02389e3f22c48687.html) 





As of February 2020, JinRi Leasing’s home page prominently displayed Chairman Li’s signature.  We matched 


Chairman Li’s signature with a registration card image and legal representative signature contained in Paper SAIC 


filings of Shangrao Hongyuan Power Co., Ltd.2 


 
Source: http://www.jinrileasing.com/login/Login.jsp?logintype=1  


 
1 Transaction not included in related party disclosures. 
2 Shanghrao Hongyuan Power Co., Ltd was JKS’s JV with JinkoPower. It was disposed in December 2019 to third parties. 





9 
17 Jan 
2018 


Name Change 
Zhejiang Jinko Finance Leasing Co. 
Ltd. 


Zhejiang Jinri Finance Leasing Co., 
Ltd. 








Chairman Chairman Li’s 


Signature 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

https://www.qichacha.com/firm_27e4d4f480dce17f02389e3f22c48687.html

http://www.jinrileasing.com/login/Login.jsp?logintype=1
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





5 





 
Source: Paper SAIC filings of Shanghai Hongyuan Power Co., Ltd. dated 1 Aug 2018 





Additional findings corroborate that Chairman Li secretly purchased Zhejiang Leasing from JKS. 





Qichacha.com disclosed that JinRi Leasing’s current office address is next door to Jinko Power (Room 201 and 202) 


and that a Zhejiang Leasing related company listed a JinkoPower employee email address as its primary point of 


contact.  


 
JinkoPower’s current registered address is Room 202 of West Block Two, No 58 Yuanxi Road, Ruanhua County, Haining, Jiaxing, Zhejiang 


Source: Qichacha.com 

















Li Xiande 


Legal Representative information 


Legal representative Chairman Li Signature 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





6 


 
JinRi Leasing’s registered address is room 201 of West Block Two, No 58 Yuanxi Road, Ruanhua County, Haining, Jiaxing, Zhejiang  


Source: Qichacha.com 





A satellite image of JinRi Leasing shows its location as JinkoPower which is located within the JKS manufacturing 


facility compound. There is even a residential compound named “JKS Home” (晶科家园) opposite the road which 
appear to be dormitories for JKS’ employees, and the local bus stop is called “Jinko Solar” stop. 








             
Source: Baidu Map 





To us the facts clearly show that Zhejiang Leasing remains under the control of Chairman Li.  





JKS disclosed in its 2018 20-F that the value of its leased assets was RMB 820 million arranged with independent 


third parties.  While JKS does not disclose the identity of its current sale & leaseback arrangements, we would not be 


surprised to find out that Chairman Li secretly controls the lessor considering his ownership of other finance leasing 


companies and that Chairman Li failed to disclose his relationship with Zhejiang Leasing.  











Jinko Solar 


Jinko Power / 


JinRi Leasing 





Jinko Power / 


JinRi Leasing 


Jinko Home 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





7 





a. JiaYin and Chairman Li’s Other Private Finance Leasing Companies 
 


A Qichacha.com search revealed that Zhejiang Leasing’s beneficial owner is Jia Yin Holdings Limited (“Jia Yin”) (


嘉印控股有限公司).  A Qichacha search for Jia Yin disclosed that Jia Yin has ownership in 3 Chinese finance leasing 


companies: JinRi Leasing, Jinyuan Huaxing Finance Leasing Co., Ltd. (“Jinyuan Huaxing”) (金源华兴融资租赁有


限公司), and Shanghai Dingyuan Finance Leasing Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Dingyuan”) (上海鼎源融资租赁有限公司). 
 





Shareholders of JinRi Leasing     Jia Yin Investments 





          
Source: qichacha.com 





Qichacha.com disclosed that Chairman Li and JKS co-founder Chen Kangping co-own two other finance leasing 


companies held by Jia Yin: Jinyuan Huaxing Leasing and Shanghai Dingyuan Leasing. 








Shareholders of  


Shanghai Dingyuan Leasing  &  Jinyuan Huaxing Leasing 


  
Source: qichacha.com 











Cayman entity 





Li Xiande 


Li Xiande 


Chen Kangping 


Chen Kangping 


Cayman entity 








Chen Kangping 


Chen Kangping 


Li Xiande 


Li Xiande 


Cayman entity 


Jinyuan Huaxing Leasing 


JinRi Leasing 


Shanghai Dingyuan Leasing 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





8 





b. Investsummit 
 


JinRi Leasing’s website homepage shows two company logos side by side: JinRi Leasing and 中合汇金 
(“Invesummit”).  We assume Invesummit to be a significant partner of JinRi Leasing considering its prominent display 


on JinRi Leasing’s home login page. 


 
Source: http://www.jinrileasing.com/login/Login.jsp?logintype=1 





Qichacha.com revealed that Invesummit is wholly owned by Shangrao Chuanghui Technology Co., Ltd (“Shangrao 


Chuanghui”) (上饶市创辉科技有限公司) which is 99.5% owned by one Wang Jianhua (汪建华).  Shangrao 
Chuanghui is also engaged in the manufacturing of silicon wafers, modules, and solar panels, directly in competition 


with JKS. 





 
Source: Qichacha.com 





Wang Jianhua is listed as the legal representative for 3 other companies. One of them is Shandong Taijing Logistics 


Co., Ltd (“Taijing Logistics”) (山东泰晶物流有限公司) which listed a JinkoPower email address as its own contact 
email. There is no reason for Taijing Logistics to share JinkoPower’s email address unless it is controlled by 


JinkoPower and share employee overlap.  











Company: Tiajing Logistics 


Legal Representative of Invesummit 


Wang Jianhua 


Title: Legal Representative 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

http://www.jinrileasing.com/login/Login.jsp?logintype=1
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





9 


 
Source: qichacha.com 





Both Shangrao Chuanghui and Taijing Logistics have the same company supervisor, Yan Junxiang, the same as other 


privately owned entities that list wende.weng@jinkosolar.com and tianfa.wu@jinkosolar.com as primary email 


contacts (see section on Yanshan Power). 





Given Wang Jianhua is a key partner of Zhejiang Leasing, is in the silicon wafer, solar panel and module 


manufacturing business, and has listed JinkoPower as a contact email for Wang Jianhua’s other businesses, we think 


it is clear that Wang Jianhua is a cohort of Chairman Li and holds multiple other co-investments including other 


finance leasing companies with Chairman Li and other JKS insiders.  





Regardless, the evidence shows that JKS secretly sold its finance leasing business to Chairman Li.  Post-disposal, JKS 


ceased doing business with Zhejiang Leasing, rather transferred its RMB 820 million in financing arrangements to 


supposed “independent third parties”.   We encourage those with disclosure power to see if JKS had accurately 


disclosed the independent status of JKS’s current financing arrangements.   





Our bet is that JKS’s arrangement is with one of Chairman Li’s other finance leasing companies.  





 
Bonitas Graphic Source: Qichacha.com 

















Taijing Logistics’ Email Address:       chuanliang.hou@jinkopower.com 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

mailto:wende.weng@jinkosolar.com

mailto:tianfa.wu@jinkosolar.com
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





10 





YANSHAN POWER SOLD TO CHAIRMAN LI TWO MONTHS AFTER JKS ACQUIRED IT 





One of the tell-tale signs of a fraud is when we look under rocks and continue to find cockroaches.  Evidence shows 


that Chairman Li tucked in valuable solar farm projects into JinkoPower prior to disposal, including the use of 


counterparties secretly connected to Chairman Li.  





In August 2016, JKS purchased a 57MW PV power project in Shangrao city, Jiangxi province (“Yanshan”) for RMB 


72 million, only to turn around and sell Yanshan two months later to Chairman Li.  Both Qichacha.com and 


JinkoPower’s November 2019 Chinese IPO Prospectus disclosed that JKS acquired Yanshan from Jiangxi Zhanyu 


New Energy Holding Co., Ltd. (“Uniex”) (江西展宇新能源股份有限公司). 
 


 
Source: https://www.qichacha.com/firm_f422d5a12303a644ce2e26c72ff34e01.html  





Below is the shareholding structure of Uniex.  





 
Source: https://www.qichacha.com/firm_0d9888234071ccfb6be945a176470be3.html 





A Qichacha.com search for Uniex shareholders revealed Wang Xiangyun’s association with 11 different companies, 


4 of which listed wende.weng@jinkosolar.com as a primary email contact. 3 





Two of Wang Xiangyun’s entities that use JKS email addresses have a company supervisor, Yan Junxiang (严俊翔) 


who is also company supervisor of four other entities that appear related to JKS.  





 
3 https://www.qichacha.com/pl_p62a629f0a34e6bcc8798332eb30af50.html 





Red Box translation: On 31 August 2016, Uniex 


exited as a 100% shareholder of Yanshan, and Jinko 


Power became the new 100% shareholder 





Wang Xiangyun 


Zhou Huanwen 


Chen Jianquan 


Pan Sufang 


Chen Dengfeng 


Wang Haibo 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

https://www.qichacha.com/firm_f422d5a12303a644ce2e26c72ff34e01.html

https://www.qichacha.com/firm_0d9888234071ccfb6be945a176470be3.html

mailto:wende.weng@jinkosolar.com

https://www.qichacha.com/pl_p62a629f0a34e6bcc8798332eb30af50.html
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





11 


Source: qichacha.com  





A reverse search of the two email addresses, wende.weng@jinkosolar.com and tianfa.wu@jinkosolar.com, revealed 


43 companies that were owned by various directors and shareholders of Uniex and JKS. 41 of the 43 companies shared 


the same registered address: 4th Industrial Road, Shangrao Economic and Technological Development Zone, Jiangxi 


Province (江西省上饶经济技术开发区工业四路), which is 2.9km away from JKS’s Shangrao location. 
 


 
Source: https://www.qichacha.com/firm_7d897e12e921113f3d8d5c1c689570e0.html  








Wende.weng@jinkosolar.com, owned by 


Wang Xiangyun 


Owner of Invesummit, partner displayed on 


Jinri Leasing’s site, legal rep. Wang Jianhua 


Wende.weng@jinkosolar.com, owned by 


Wang Xiangyun 


Wende.weng@jinkosolar.com, owned by  


Chen Dengfeng, director of Jiangxi Zhanyu 


Tianwu.fa@jinkosolar.com, same address as 


the companies in red boxes 


Chuanliang.hou@jinkopower.com, legal 


representative Wang Jianhua 


Tianfa.wu@jinkosolar.com, same address as the 


companies in red boxes 


Address for 41 of 43 registered 


companies to @jinkosolar.com email 


address 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

mailto:wende.weng@jinkosolar.com

mailto:tianfa.wu@jinkosolar.com

https://www.qichacha.com/firm_7d897e12e921113f3d8d5c1c689570e0.html
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





12 


Of the 43 companies found, only 4 actually count JKS as its ultimate controlling shareholder while the remaining 39 


companies were beneficially held privately by the directors of Uniex, Chairman Li and his brothers and JKS 


employees. Shouldn’t JKS-owned companies be the only companies that use jinkosolar.com email addresses?  





 
Bonitas Graphic Source: Qichacha.com 





We believe Wende Weng and Tianfa Wu work for JKS under the direction of Chairman Li who used them to establish 


and maintain private companies for himself and his cohorts.   





The fact that JKS disposed of Yanshan Power only two months after purchasing Yanshan Power suggests to us that 


Chairman Li always intended to offload Yanshan to himself as part of the JinkoPower disposal.   





As a final thought, investors should not take comfort in JKS’s slate of independent directors to watch out for the best 


interest of shareholders because they cannot spot fraud.  JKS’s Independent Director Steven Markscheid was asleep 


at the wheel on Hexindai, another US-listed Chinese fraud we exposed in January 2019 whose stock price has since 


collapsed. (see: https://www.bonitasresearch.com/company/hexindai-nasdaq-hx/) 








 
Source: Bloomberg 


 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/

https://www.bonitasresearch.com/company/hexindai-nasdaq-hx/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





13 





WEAK RESPONSE FROM JKS 





We obtained a letter distributed by JKS IR to JKS shareholders whereby JKS management maintained their 


innocence and fell back on previously disclosed statements in its 20-F without providing shareholders with any 


additional substantive evidence to refute our allegations.  JKS’ IR letter to shareholders was not an official press 


release filed with the SEC (no 6-K), so we have included a copy of JKS’ 3 page response (“JKS’ Response”) as 


Appendix I for those that have not received personal letters from JKS IR yet.   





a. US$ 209 MILLION FAKE AUSTRALIAN SALES 
 
JKS failed to disclose the identity of its unknown subsidiary responsible for the US$ 209 million discrepancy between 


ASIC reported and SEC reported Australian sales. JKS’ Response claimed that the US$ 209 million discrepancy was 


from an undisclosed change in its MODUS OPERANDI for how it recorded its Australian sales in 2017 and 2018 


versus 2015 and 2016.   





 
Source: JKS IR Letter to Shareholders – March 4, 2020 


 
JKS’ SEC filings reported that Australian sales accelerated from US$ 37 million (RMB 261 million) in 2016 to US$ 


302+ million (RMB 2+ billion) in 2018, up 696% in 2 years. Australian Securities & Investments Commission 


(“ASIC”) database filings for JKS’ only Australian operating subsidiary, Jinko Solar Australia Holdings Co., Pty Ltd. 


(“JKS Australia”) corroborated the accuracy of JKS’ SEC-reported Australian sales figures in 2015 and 2016.4   





However, in 2017 and 2018, JKS’ SEC-reported Australian sales were US$ 209 million higher than what was 


reported by JKS’ ASIC filings which showed that JKS fabricated its Australian sales in its SEC filings in 2017 


and 2018.5  





  
Note: JKS did not disclose sales specific to Australia prior to 2015. 


Source: JKS 20-F, JKS Australia 2016 and 2018 ASIC annual returns 








 
4 Note: JKS did not disclose sales specific to Australia prior to 2015. 
5 ASIC 2019 Annual Reports not available at the time of this report.  


Sales Discrepancy Between ASIC and SEC Filings


Figures in USD'000 2015 2016 2017 2018


SEC Reported Australian Sales 32,911       37,642       119,488      302,555        


% growth 14% 217% 153%


ASIC Reported Australian Sales 33,317       37,500       79,642        132,709        


% growth 13% 112% 67%


Difference (406)          142           39,846      169,846      


%  Overstatement -1% 0% 33% 56%



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





14 





b. US$ 42 MILLION LIABILITY OMITTED FROM JKS BALANCE SHEET 
 


JKS’ Response repeated that JKS South Africa was sold to an independent third party.  Evidence suggests this is a lie.  





JKS’ Response failed to disclose the identity of its “independent third party” who supposedly purchased US$ 42 


million of South African customs duties liabilities from JKS for US$ 1.   Information filed with the South Africa 


Companies and Intellectual Property Commission (“CIPC”) show no change in directors for JKS South Africa since 


2013.  We think the truth is JKS remains liable for US$ 42 million in customs duties owed to South African Revenue 


Service (“SARS”).    





In February 2020 we sent investigators to 64 Kort Street, Parys, Free State 9585 to visit the “independent third party” 


that acquired JKS South Africa and relocated it from Cape Town to Parys, Free State.  Our investigators found a 


former minimart and bbq chicken location that had been turned into a wall of cheap clothes and backpacks.  





64 Kort St. Parys, Free State, South Africa – as of February 2020 


 
Source: February 2020 Bonitas Field Work – JKS South Africa Current Address 





c. JINKOPOWER SOLD AT SIGNIFICANT DISCOUNT TO CHAIRMAN LI 
 


JKS fell back on the advice of “various reputable professional parties” and the credibility of a “special committee” to 


justify the price Chairman Li paid JKS for JinkoPower.   





 
Source: JKS IR Letter to Shareholders – March 4, 2020 





JKS Response failed to explain how a JKS appointed special committee agreed it was in the best interest of JKS’ 


minority shareholders to sell Chairman Li JinkoPower for US$ 454 million, 40% lower than the US$ 720 million 


valuation JinkoPower received the next month from another different supposedly reputable professional firm!  


 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





15 


 
Bonitas Graphic Source: JinkoPower Chinese IPO Prospectuses; JKS 20-F filings 





In October 2016, JinkoPower was sold to Chairman Li at a US$ 455 million valuation (RMB 3.2 billion).  ONE 


MONTH AFTER Chairman Li purchased JinkoPower at a US$ 455 million valuation from JKS, JinkoPower 


received an independent appraisal valuation of US$ 720 million accompanied by a PRC insider equity raise at 


a US$ 788 million valuation.  To us, the evidence is clear that Chairman Li acquired JinkoPower at a 40+% discount 


to market value.  





Using US$ 650+ million of JKS’ financial support, Chairman Li grew JinkoPower in 3 years as a private company to 


seek a US$ 3.6 billion IPO valuation (RMB 25 billion) in 2020, a valuation 692% higher than what Chairman Li paid 


JKS for JinkoPower!  None of this value had made its way to JKS shareholders. 








d. XINRUIXIN SECRETLY CONTROLLED BY JKS CO-FOUNDER LI XIANHUA 
 


JKS’ Response claimed that Li Xianhua had no affiliation with Zhejiang Xinruixin Energy Co., Ltd. (浙江新瑞欣能


源股份有限公司) (“Xinruixin”). Evidence suggests this is a lie. 
 


 
Source: JKS IR Letter to Shareholders – March 4, 2020 





Chinese filings reveal Chairman Li’s brother and JKS co-counder Li Xianhua (“Li Xianhua”) secretly benefitted from 


controlling Xinruixin via Xinruixin Wire.  





In December 2016, one month after being listed on the NEEQ, Xinruixin established a 90% owned subsidiary Zhejiang 


Xinruixin Precision Wire Cutting Co, Ltd (浙江新瑞欣精密线锯有限公司, “Xinruixin Wire”).  Our Report presented 
numerous evidence showing just how much control Li Xianhua has over Xinruixin via Xinruixin Wire. JKS’ Response 


failed to mention a word about Xinruixin Wire – a former substantial subsidiary of Xinruixin that was disposed to Li 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





16 


Xianhua and insiders – because there is no way JKS could claim Li Xianhua’s independence from Xinruixin Wire.  Li 


Xianhua remains the largest shareholder of Xinruixin Wire as its Legal Representative, Chairman and Manager.  





 
Source: Bonitas graphic, Xinruixin’s NEEQ filings, Qichacha 





Xinruixin’s business is to service JKS exclusively, so why is Xinruixin not part of JKS? We think the answer is 


because PRC insiders wanted to benefit from secretly controlling a part of JKS’ supply chain using JKS to fund its 


growth and to ultimately raise capital at higher valuations from investors.   
 





 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





17 





APPENDIX I 


RESPONSE LETTER FROM JKS IR TO JKS SHAREHOLDERS RE: BONITAS REPORT 





 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





18 


 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





19 





 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
JinkoSolar, Inc. │ NYSE: JKS                          www.bonitasresearch.com 





20 


DISCLAIMER 
 


We are short sellers. We are biased. So are long investors. So is JKS. So are the banks that raised money for JKS.  If you are invested 


(either long or short) in JKS, so are you. Just because we are biased does not mean that we are wrong. We, like everyone else, are entitled 


to our opinions and to the right to express such opinions in a public forum. We believe that the publication of our opinions about the public 


companies we research is in the public interest.  





You are reading a short-biased opinion piece. We stand to profit if the price of JKS’ stock declines. This report and all statements contained 


herein are the opinion of Bonitas Research LLC (“Bonitas”) and are not statements of fact. Our opinions are held in good faith, and we 


have based them upon publicly available evidence, which we set out in our research report to support our opinions. We conducted research 


and analysis based on public information in a manner that any person could have done if they had been interested in doing so. You can 


publicly access any piece of evidence cited in this report or that we relied on to write this report. Think critically about our report and do 


your own homework before making any investment decisions. We are prepared to support everything we say, if necessary, in a court of 


law.  





As of the publication date of this report, Bonitas (a Texas limited liability company) (possibly along with or through our members, partners, 


affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a direct or indirect short position in the stock (and/or 


possibly other options or instruments) of the company covered herein, and therefore stands to realize significant gains if the price of such 


instrument declines. Use Bonitas’ research at your own risk. You should do your own research and due diligence before making any 


investment decision with respect to the securities covered herein. The opinions expressed in this report are not investment advice nor 


should they be construed as investment advice or any recommendation of any kind.  





Following publication of this report, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered therein, and we may be long, short, or 


neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. This is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security, 


nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws 


of such jurisdiction. To the best of our ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained 


from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, and who are not insiders or connected persons of the stock covered herein or 


who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of confidentiality to the issuer. As is evident by the contents of our research and analysis, 


we expend considerable time and attention in an effort to ensure that our research analysis and written materials are complete and 


accurate. We strive for accuracy and completeness to support our opinions, and we have a good-faith belief in everything we write, 


however, all such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind– whether express or implied.  





If you are in the United Kingdom, you confirm that you are subscribing and/or accessing Bonitas’ research and materials on behalf of: 


(A) a high net worth entity (e.g., a company with net assets of GBP 5 million or a high value trust) falling within Article 49 of the Financial 


Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “FPO”); or (B) an investment professional (e.g., a financ ial 


institution, government or local authority, or international organization) falling within Article 19 of the FPO.  





This report is not available to Australian residents.  This report and its contents are not intended to be and do not constitute or contain 


any financial product advice as defined in the Australian Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). Because this document has been prepared without 


consideration of any specific client’s investment objectives, financial situation or needs, no information in this report should be construed 


as recommending or suggesting an investment strategy. Investors should seek their own financial, legal and tax advice in respect of any 


decision regarding any securities discussed herein.  Currently, because of ambiguity in Australian law, we are restricting access to our 


reports by Australian residents.  Australian residents are encouraged to contact their lawmakers to clarify the ambiguity under Australian 


financial licensing requirements.   





This report should only be considered in its entirety.  Each section should be read in the context of the entire report, and no section, 


paragraph, sentence or phrase is intended to stand alone or to be interpreted in isolation without reference to the rest of the report.  The 


section headings contained in this report are for reference purposes only and may only be considered in conjunction with the detailed 


statements of opinions in their respective sections.  





For convenience purposes only, we have provided a Chinese translation of this report. In case of any discrepancy or inconsistency between 


the Chinese and the English versions, the English version is the original and should prevail. In case of any legal dispute, reference shall 


be made only to the English version. 





Bonitas makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with 


regard to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to change without notice, and Bonitas does not 


undertake a duty to update or supplement this report or any of the information contained herein. By downloading and opening this report 


you knowingly and independently agree: (i) that any dispute arising from your use of this report or viewing the material herein shall be 


governed by the laws of the State of Texas, without regard to any conflict of law provisions; (ii) to submit to the personal and exclusive 


jurisdiction of the superior courts located within the State of Texas and waive your right to any other jurisdiction or applicable law, given 


that Bonitas is a Texas limited liability company that operates in Texas; and (iii) that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any 


claim or cause of action arising out of or related to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such 


claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred. The failure of Bonitas to exercise or enforce any right or provision of this disclaimer 


shall not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of this disclaimer is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 


be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties' intentions as reflected in the provision 


and rule that the other provisions of this disclaimer remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and jurisdiction 


provision. 



http://www.bonitasresearch.com/
