COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





1 
 





























Newtek Business Services (NEWT): 
 
 


A House of Cards: Atrocious Credit, Manufactured Earnings, Fictional Net Asset 
Value and Regulatory Peril  





Newtek Business Services (NEWT) is a rogue company we believe is engaged in defrauding 
multiple stakeholders. The Company has exploited its Business Development Company (BDC) 
structure to dramatically misrepresent the health and profitability of its business. This report 


irrefutably documents how this subprime commercial lender defrauds the Small Business 
Administration (SBA), a taxpayer-backed government agency, misrepresents and overstates 
income, pays dividends it does not earn, raises capital under false pretenses, and presents a 


balance sheet divorced from economic reality and common sense. Despite the litany of red flags, 
Newtek has employed a carefully crafted strategy to prey on unsophisticated retail investors 


while avoiding the scrutiny of capital markets and regulators. Until now. 
 
 


Fair Value: $8.00 per share, 60% downside 
 
 
 
 


“I will tell you I have, as the primary face of the company, kind of maintained a 
lot of the Investor Relations contacts… I'm good at it”1 


 
CEO Barry Sloane explaining why he refuses to hire a Chief Financial Officer
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





2 
 


















































IMPORTANT Disclaimer – Please read this Disclaimer in its entirety before 


continuing to read our research opinion. You should do your own research and due 


diligence before making any investment decision with respect to securities covered 


herein. We strive to present information accurately and cite the sources and analysis 


that help form our opinion. As of the date this opinion is posted, the author of this 


report has a short position in the company covered herein and stands to realize gains 


in the event that the price of the stock declines. The author does not provide any 


advanced warning of future reports to others. Following publication of this report, 


the author may transact in the securities of the company, and may be long, short, or 


neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial opinion. To the best of our 


ability and belief, all information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has 


been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable. However, 


such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether 


express or implied. The author of this report makes no representations, express or 


implied, as to the timeliness or completeness of any such information or with regard 


to the results to be obtained from its use. All expressions of opinion are subject to 


change without notice and the author does not undertake to update or supplement 


this report or any of the information contained herein. This is not an offer to buy any 


security, nor shall any security be offered or sold to any person, in any jurisdiction 


in which such offer would be unlawful under the securities laws of such jurisdiction.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





3 
 


Executive Summary 


 
We believe Newtek Business Services (“Newtek” or “NEWT”) is a Pyramid Scheme dividend structure2 


predicated on (1) Paying dividends that are not earned, (2) Systematically overstating the operating 


earnings management claims cover the dividend, (3) Systematically overstating the value of its assets, 


and (4) Misrepresenting the health of its credit portfolio through: non-economic/unrealistic asset 


valuations, and a refusal to recognize credit losses, including to many bankrupt borrowers (we found 37 


loans Newtek deems “performing” to borrowers who had filed Chapter 11). These misleading 


shenanigans enable Newtek to raise capital from unsuspecting individual investors to finance unearned 


dividends. We believe this circuitous process is the lifeblood of Newtek’s public markets existence. With 


the tailwind of a historically prolonged credit cycle, management has thus far papered over the 


enormous defects of this “business model.” However, economic reality, potentially hastened by 


meaningful regulatory enforcement, suggests a material cut to, or the elimination of, the dividend is 


inevitable. We see at least 50% downside to the value of NEWT shares.     


Newtek’s management uses a variety of accounting tricks to materially overstate its reported income. 


With only a handful of sell-side analysts, and a shareholder base dominated by unsuspecting retail 


investors, roundtrip transactions with control companies, capitalized servicing that runs through 


operating earnings and is then reversed out “below the line” every year since 2014, charging its own 


wholly owned subsidiaries rent and managerial fees that run through income but are then excluded as 


expenses when valuing those same investments, and a long list of other deceptions have gone 


unnoticed despite accounting for 20-30% of annual operating income.  And these misstatements are 


modest when compared to the credit expenses management has concealed.  


The Company’s persistent stock sales to retail investors (through an at-the-market (ATM) offering), 


while overstating both earnings and book value, and dramatically misrepresenting the credit 


performance of its loan portfolio, is a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issue. But Newtek’s 


regulatory risk appears to go far beyond potential SEC sanctions. In this report, we present clear 


evidence that the Inspector General (“IG”) recently put the SBA on notice to reign in lenders like 


Newtek, who abuse SBA guarantees. Should Newtek lose its SBA Preferred Lender Status, the result 


would be catastrophic to earnings.   


On October 1, 2019, Newtek confessed it would materially miss its SBA loan origination guidance. When 


Newtek announced its Q3’19 results on November 6, 2019, the Company disclosed the SBA had forced 


the repurchase of $6.5 million of nonperforming, previously sold SBA loans at par. According to former 


SBA employees, including Lender Relation Specialists, the significant spike in compelled repurchases of 


severely delinquent loans is a clear sign the SBA is focused on the underwriting deficiencies and 


deteriorating performance of Newtek issued loans.3 Further, we do not believe it was a coincidence that 


Newtek’s lending shortfall and forced SBA loan repurchase occurred at the same time the Inspector 


General was seeking information from the SBA on how it handles high-risk lenders like Newtek. But the 


scathing IG report and possibility of SBA action may actually be the least of Newtek’s regulatory 


concerns.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





4 
 


The Department of Justice recently indicted five former officers and employees of banc-serv Partners 


LLP, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Newtek, for their alleged $10 million scheme to defraud the SBA.4 


Considering the breadth of misrepresentation and manufactured earnings that we believe exists at 


Newtek, the alleged fraud at bank-serv may be the tip of the iceberg, even if the abuses took place prior 


to its control. In our opinion, the scope of Newtek’s unscrupulous business practices warrants 


investigations by multiple regulators responsible for protecting diverse stakeholders. As such, we have 


delivered our findings to the SEC, the SBA’s Office of Credit Risk Management (OCRM), the Office of 


Inspector General at the SBA, the Administrator for the Atlantic Region of the SBA, and the Office of 


Representative Judy Chu (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on 


Investigations, Oversight and Regulations, which is charged with oversight of the SBA and the SBA 


Inspector General.  


Putting aside Newtek’s substantial regulatory risk, we believe its business model will ultimately collapse 


from gravity alone. As we illustrate throughout this report, Newtek is sprinting on an unvirtuous, ever-


accelerating treadmill. At this point, a graceful dismount seems impossible. Simply put, Newtek: 


1. Originates subprime commercial loans primarily through unaffiliated brokers and referral 
agents,   


2. Immediately recognizes more than 100% of the loan economics by selling a government 
guaranteed participation in the loans,  


3. Retains a growing portfolio of first loss, unguaranteed participations in the loans it originates,  
4. Dramatically mismarks those assets to show book value growth – despite atrocious credit 


performance in its money-losing subprime loan portfolio,  
5. Declares dividends based on overstated operating earnings,  
6. Then raises capital to (a) cover the shortfall between operating cash flow and the dividends 


declared, and (b) originate even more subprime commercial loans to keep the cycle intact.  
As Newtek repeats this cycle every quarter, the distortions become more pronounced: the toxic credit 


portfolio gets larger, requiring even more nonsensical asset marks, and the gap between what the 


Company pays out in dividends versus what it actually earns becomes wider and wider.  


The Newtek story is remarkably similar to the subprime mortgage originators a dozen years ago. They 


too made loans to poor credits, front-end loaded earnings recognition while deferring credit expenses, 


and were forced to accelerate the process every year just to stand still. Like its subprime mortgage 


originating cousins, the question for Newtek is “when, not if” the game ends badly. Considering 


Newtek’s 30-day+ delinquency rate of 18.9% on September 30, 2019 was the highest of any public 


lender in the country, we believe the “when” is fast approaching.5 The victims of management’s choice 


to obfuscate, overstate and embellish will ultimately be retail investors who have been misled into 


believing they own a stable, low leverage, income vehicle.  


We believe at least 50% downside exists in Newtek’s stock. 


Below, we summarize the sections of our first Newtek Business Services report. Each of these sections is 


discussed in more detail in the body of the report:
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





5 
 


1. Newtek in Brief and a Crash Course in SBA Lending (pg 14) 
Newtek is a Business Development Company (BDC) focused on Small Business Administration (SBA) 


loans. The Company converted to a BDC in 2014, which allowed the balance sheet and income 


statements of its wholly owned “control companies” to be deconsolidated. We document how 


management has methodically used this exemption to manufacture earnings to create the perception it 


earns the dividends management declares and boost book value to mask pervasive credit losses.  


A BDC is a Registered Investment Company (RIC). The SEC requires RICs to disclose the name, cost basis 


and fair value of each of its investments on a quarterly basis. This disclosure allows investors to track 


portfolio performance, lawsuits, bankruptcy filings, delinquency trends, and non-accrual migrations 


within Newtek’s loan portfolio. However, the structure also allows Newtek to materially manipulate the 


value of its investment portfolio because there is no observable market for SBA loans or its control 


companies. We examined over 2,000 of Newtek’s individually listed SBA loans and found a troubling 


pattern of aggressive, often ridiculous asset value distortions (sections 3 and 4 of this report).  


Our analysis indicates Newtek is operationally incapable of monitoring credit deterioration on a timely 


basis and has systematically deceived investors about the performance and health of its SBA loan 


portfolio. We show how these contortions materially overstate earnings and net asset value (NAV), 


which is consequential because Newtek constantly raises capital on these misstated financials to stay on 


its treadmill.  


The second part of this section provides salient background to understand the Small Business 


Administration, pertinent characteristics of SBA loans, and lender business models in this asset class. 


Unsurprisingly, Newtek has chosen the most aggressive, highest risk strategy available to SBA lenders, 


premised on 1) selecting the riskiest borrowers amongst a pool of risky borrowers, 2) front-loading 


reported earnings, while 3) deferring and/or excluding the most significant expenses.  


2. Operating Cashflow Does Not Cover the Dividend… In Fact, it’s Not Even Close (pg 17) 
Newtek’s stock promotion relies on aggressive definitions of income and preposterous valuation marks. 


This is a requirement because Newtek’s operating cash flow falls significantly short of reported 


operating income, and by extension, operating cash flow doesn’t cover the dividend. Since the beginning 


of 2018, Newtek’s dividend payments have exceeded adjusted operating cash flow by $29.7 million. We 


would note that our analysis generously adjusts the Company’s presentation of operating cash flow 


UPWARD to give credit for the accounting increase in the cost basis of loans. Considering 2:1 BDC 


leverage limits,6 the $15 million of equity Newtek raised in recent quarters allowed it to also raise $30 


million of additional debt. These raises bridged the $29.7 million cash flow shortfall relative to the 


dividend, while also providing capital to sustain the treadmill with additional SBA loans.  


Exhibit 1: Even When Adjusted Up, Cash Flow Falls Far Short of the Dividend
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





6 
 


 
Source: Newtek filings 





Given the lack of cash income, stated leverage since the beginning of 2018 has increased from 0.78 to 


1.34 debt-to-equity, or 72%. When factoring in Newtek’s fictional asset valuations, economic leverage 


has increased significantly more.    


3. Reported Earnings Are Manufactured and Distort Newtek’s Economic Reality (pg 19) 
Newtek’s management points investors to “adjusted net investment income” (ANII) as the metric to 


measure its operating performance and indicator of dividend capacity. Based on the Non-GAAP ANII 


calculation, it would appear Newtek covers its dividends. Since the beginning of 2018, Newtek has 


reported $3.59 of cumulative ANII per share, while paying $3.24 in dividends. However, Newtek’s 


reported earnings are not representative of the Company’s cash flow or economics.  


As is the case with most pyramid schemes, a lack of operating cash flow can expose the integrity 


deficiency of adjusted operating earnings. Specific to Newtek, the deficiency is the result of non-cash 


levers management uses to manufacture and inflate “reported” earnings. This misconduct does not 


impact the cash flow statement.       


Newtek uses multiple techniques to manufacture and inflate “adjusted net investment income” 


including, but not limited to: 


• Recognizing interest income accrued on bankrupt borrowers 


• Roundtripping dividends from “control companies” 


• Charging wholly owned control companies rent, classifying the rent as income to the parent, and 
then raising the rent to provide extra income 


• Charging “managerial assistance fees” to control companies and recognizing those fees as ANII 
(but then adding those fees back when valuing its control companies)  


• Including non-cash capitalized servicing gains in ANII when it sells SBA loans and then later 
writing those gains down through unrealized depreciation outside of the ANII calculation.  


• Failing to recognize significant credit losses (Section 6 is devoted to this shenanigan)  
 


4. Management’s Approach to Valuing Assets Means Stated Book Value is Disconnected from Reality 
(pg 27) 


Newtek would like investors to believe its valued at 140% of Net Asset Value. However, extensive 


diligence suggests Newtek’s accounting schemes and unrealistic portfolio marks result in a materially 


overstated published book value. We believe if Newtek accurately reflected its economic book value, or 


used a more conventional approach to asset valuation, book value would decline substantially. Their 


$s in thousands


Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3


Operating cash flow ($20,818) $8,180 ($36,906) ($24,122) ($17,140) ($9,572) ($18,961)


Add: Increase in cost basis of loans and investments $14,475 $16,977 $21,190 $27,827 $15,812 $16,370 $36,195


Net adjusted operating cash flow ($6,343) $25,157 ($15,716) $3,705 ($1,328) $6,798 $17,234


Cumulative adjusted operating cash flow ($6,343) $18,814 $3,098 $6,803 $5,475 $12,273 $29,507


Cumulative dividends paid ($7,202) ($14,839) ($23,383) ($32,433) ($39,787) ($48,269) ($59,168)


Cumulative delta between cash flow and dividends ($13,545) $3,975 ($20,285) ($25,630) ($34,312) ($35,996) ($29,661)


2018 2019
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





7 
 


systematic approach to overstate asset values affects more than just optics. It increases the statutory 


borrowing capacity stipulated by BDC regulations and is therefore consistent with other management 


strategies to ensure access to capital necessary to stay on its treadmill.      


Of its 2,058 performing loans, Newtek has marked an unimaginable 1,235 at a premium to par.7 


Included within the loans carried at a premium to par are 442 loans that are marked in-line, or at a 


premium to where the Company sold the guaranteed portion of their SBA loans. This defies financial 


logic and is just one material driver of the overstated book value. Specifically, these unguaranteed, first 


loss tranches carry no prepayment penalties, warrants, or other mechanism that would allow Newtek to 


receive more than the interest and principal due from the borrowers. The credit quality of these loans is 


extremely poor considering borrowers are participating in a government subsidized lending program. In 


fact, the first line of the second paragraph of the SBA 7(a) regulations states, “No financial assistance 


shall be extended pursuant to this subsection if the applicant can obtain credit elsewhere.” There is no 


justification for Newtek to carry these unguaranteed loans at a premium to par.8 To the contrary, every 


loan Newtek holds has an economic value less than par once the 75% guaranteed portion is sold. 


Valuing, first loss participating, nonguaranteed loans at a premium to face is not only unprecedented 


among SBA lenders, but completely illogical.  


A few representative examples of the type of loans and marks Newtek carries include: 


• The unguaranteed loans to Purple Cow House of Pancakes at 115% of face 


• Little Tree Huggers Child Care at 114% of face 


• Sixteen different bowling alley loans at significant premiums to unpaid principal  


 
Little Tree Huggers        Purple Cow House of Pancakes
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





8 
 


 
Beau’s Billiard, Bowling, and Arcade  


 
We encourage investors to peruse the 1,200+ examples of premium marked loans Newtek discloses in 


its 10Q and discover for themselves that we have not cherry-picked examples; and that nonsensical 


valuations are a defining feature of the portfolio. 


As preposterous as the premium marks on Newtek’s performing loan portfolio appear, management’s 


subjective valuation of its non-performing loans is even worse. Our examination of Newtek’s non-


performing loan portfolio found dozens of examples of loans being carried at or near par, despite the 


borrower having filed for bankruptcy protection. 


Newtek’s aggressive and systematic overstatement of book value extends beyond its SBA loan portfolio. 


Consider Newtek’s 50/50 joint venture with Blackrock TCP Capital Corp, which became operational 


during Q3’19. In the first quarter the JV was operational, Newtek recognized a 44.3% annualized 


return on its $12.2 million cost basis investment by immediately marking up loans and the equity 


allocated to the JV. Newtek’s mark was a 150% premium to the more conventional mark its 50/50 


partner took on the exact same asset.  


Newtek’s aggressive approach to overstating book value appears cultural. In the third quarter of 2019 


alone, Newtek took the following marks on wholly unguaranteed loans the JV had originated over the 


previous three months: 


• Two floating rate loans totaling $11.1 million on real estate for a youth soccer complex. Newtek 
marked the loans at a 9.6% premium to principal just a few weeks after origination.  


• A $2.3 million unguaranteed loan to 10 28th Ave SW Associates LLC, which appears to be a Planet 
Fitness gym in Minot, North Dakota. This loan was marked to a 10.3% premium a few weeks after 
origination. 


• A $436,000 loan marked up to 108.9% on a suburban office building in Cocoa Beach, Florida, housing 
what appears to be a derivatives trading company.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





9 
 


• An $11.5 million loan on warehouse space that houses a movie and video camera rental business in 
North Hollywood, California, which was immediately marked up by 4 points.  





Finally, in this section we discuss how Newtek values its “control” investments, which are also 


systematically overvalued and misrepresented.     


5. Is Newtek the Riskiest or the Worst Lender in America? Perhaps Both. (pg 41) 
At September 30, 2019, Newtek’s non-performing loan portfolio was 11.6% of total loans (Note: Newtek 


reported their non-performers at 9/30/2019 as 10.23%, however, the Company inexplicably excluded 


$6.5 million in non-performing loans it was forced to repurchase from the SBA). According to S&P 


Global, there were only three other public lenders in the country with non-performers exceeding 10%. 


Incidentally, the other three were: RAIT Financial (RASFQ) – which filed for bankruptcy, World 


Acceptance (WRLD) – a troubled deep subprime lender who shares an auditor with NEWT, and AG 


Mortgage Trust (MITT) – which only qualifies because their business model is acquiring non-performing 


loans at deep discounts to par. Looking more broadly, only ten other lenders had non-performers 


exceeding 5%. Four of the ten have business models that acquire non-performing loans, which leaves 


only six other public lenders in America with non-performing ratios on originated loans that exceeded 


5%.  


Exhibit 2: Highest Non-Accrual Rates Among Public US Lenders 


 
Source: S&P Global 


While Newtek’s credit record is uniquely terrible, the trend will further deteriorate based on its 30-day+ 


delinquency rate of 18.9% at September 30, 2019. According to S&P, Newtek has by far the single 


Nonaccrual Loans/


Total Loans


Colony Credit Real Estate, Inc. 5.49%


Enova International, Inc. 6.63%


New Residential Investment Corp. 6.68%


Ellington Financial Inc. 6.74%


On Deck Capital, Inc. 7.29%


E*TRADE Financial Corporation 7.33%


SWK Holdings Corporation 9.70%


AG Mortgage Investment Trust, Inc. 10.12%


World Acceptance Corporation 10.91%


RAIT Financial Trust* 18.75%


Newtek Business Services 11.62%


* Filed for bankruptcy protection
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





10 
 


highest delinquency rate of any public lender in the country. Only seven other US lenders have 


delinquency rates over 5%, which includes companies focused on purchasing delinquent loans and RAIT 


Financial, who is bankrupt. 





Exhibit 3: Highest Delinquency Rates Among Public US Lenders 


 
Source: S&P Global 


Newtek’s asset quality is not just bad, it is historically bad, especially in the context of a healthy 


economy. At the height of the Great Recession (9/30/08), S&P Global tracked only 18 lenders with non-


performers exceeding 10%. Of the 18, only 3 survived – $24 million market cap Citizens Bancshares 


(CZBS), $31 million market cap Oxford Bank (OXBC), and iStar Financial (STAR) which survived because of 


significant unpledged real estate assets.  


For perspective, Newtek’s abysmal credit performance is unique to Newtek and not just the 


consequence of the asset class on which it is focused. In section 5 below we compare Newtek’s credit 


record with that of Live Oak Bancshares, a top three SBA originator.  The contrast is illuminating to say 


the least. 


6. Newtek Refuses to Recognize Credit Losses (pg 51) 
In its most recent quarter, Newtek reported trailing-twelve month charge-offs of just 0.87%.9 However, 


this metric is blatantly misleading due to Newtek’s irresponsible policy towards recognizing losses, 


which detract from its ANII metric. By deferring the recognition of losses indefinitely, Newtek hides a 


material expense from ANII.  


This policy also helps to explain why Newtek has the worst delinquency rate in the country, as 


delinquent loans are never charged off. Once a borrower stops servicing debt, Newtek’s policy is to 


categorize the loan as non-performing and maintain that status for years, even when clear and 


30-Day+


Delinquency 


Rate


Alliance Data Systems 5.13%


Nicholas Financial, Inc. 6.76%


RAIT Financial Trust* 8.56%


Chimera Investment Corporation 10.80%


Nelnet, Inc. 11.49%


Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. 12.40%


Newtek Business Services 18.90%


* Filed for bankruptcy protection
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





11 
 


indisputable evidence exists that a credit loss is inevitable. If Newtek ONLY recognized the $19.3 million 


of unrealized depreciation identified in its current portfolio of non-performing loans, credit losses 


running through ANII over the last 12 months would have increased by 600%. Even this example 


materially understates the magnitude of embedded losses Newtek will eventually suffer. At 


9/30/2019, Newtek had 63 of its 185 nonperforming loans marked at over 90% of par, with the 


majority of those marked at over 95%. Loss severities on unguaranteed SBA loans will be orders of 


magnitude larger once these loans are ultimately charged off.  


Newtek’s loss recognition policy, in concert with its promotion of ANII, paints a brazenly false profile 


of Newtek’s profitability. For example, Newtek made two loans to Calhoun Satellite, totaling $913,000. 


Calhoun filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on August 22, 2017.  


Exhibit 4: Calhoun Satellite Communications Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Filing 


  
Source: United States Bankruptcy Court 





Despite Calhoun’s 2017 bankruptcy filing, Newtek had not realized its loss on these loans two years 


later, only recognizing “unrealized depreciation” which never hits ANII.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





12 
 


 
Source: Newtek Q3 2019 10-Q 


If Newtek realized the loss content on the Calhoun loans, this single borrower would have reduced ANII 


by $0.05 per share and increased the trailing 12-month charge-off ratio by 28.4%. Just one loan among 


2,240 total loans, 185 non-performing loans, and 285+ delinquent loans. An examination of Newtek’s 


portfolio reveals dozens of obvious unrealized losses being unscrupulously kept from the income 


statement (eg - Bear Creek Entertainment: $1.1 million of losses; Europlast: $330,600 of losses despite 


becoming a non-performer in 2015; Capstone Pediatrics PLLC: originated in Q2’15, filed for bankruptcy 


in Q4’15 and has still not been written off).  


7. The SBA Has Been Put on Notice to Reign in Newtek (pg 53) 
On November 12, 2019, The Office of Inspector General submitted a report summarizing the results of 


its “Audit of [the] SBA’s Oversight of High-Risk Lenders.”10 Per the IG report, the “objective was to 


determine whether SBA performed effective oversight of high-risk lenders to identify and mitigate 


risks.” Based on the volume of originations and the default rate of the lenders the IG studied in its audit, 


the conclusion is that the SBA’s Office of Credit Risk Management (OCRM) failed to stop lenders like 


Newtek from abusing the SBA 7(a) lending program. In fact, there is evidence to suggest Newtek was a 


case study for the IG’s findings.  


The audit and subsequent report found the “OCRM did not always perform effective oversite of high-risk 


lenders to identify and mitigate risks.” Specifically, the report found OCRM did not perform the lender 


and loan file reviews that most effectively uncover abuses. The IG found that as a consequence of the 


OCRM deficiencies “there is an increased risk that lenders with repeated identified systematic 


deficiencies will continue to participate in SBA’s 7(a) and 504 loan programs, which could jeopardize 


the integrity of the programs and increase the risk of financial loss to the $120 billion loan portfolio.”11 


We believe the IG may as well have referred to NEWT by name. In its response to the IG report, the 


SBA agreed with the critiques levied against it by the Inspector General and will implement six 


recommended remediations. 


While not totally apples-to-apples given Newtek’s tendency to defer the realization of credit events in 


order to inflate ANII, the divergence between the delinquency rate of Newtek originated loans and 


those of the SBA 7(a) program are dramatic. While Newtek delinquencies have been steadily climbing to 


its 18.9% rate reported at 9/30/19, the delinquency rate for the overall 7(a) programs declined to 0.7% 


as of the last available disclosure.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





13 
 


Based on Newtek’s underwriting performance and credit trends, it seems clear the SBA would be better 


off if Newtek’s preferred lender status was revoked. We have delivered documented summaries of our 


findings to Inspector General Hannibal Ware and Assistant Inspector General for Audits Andrea 


Deadwyler, Steve Bulger, the Administrator for Region II of the SBA (Newtek’s region), and the office of 


Representative Judy Chu (D-CA), Chairwoman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on 


Investigations, Oversight and Regulations which is charged with oversight of the SBA and the SBA 


Inspector General.   


8. Management’s Promotion & Obsession with NEWT’s Stock Price (pg 54) 
CEO Barry Sloane’s obsession with NEWT’s stock price is akin to a penny stock promoter. Considering 


Newtek requires access to the capital markets to keep the house of cards standing, we believe the 


promotion and misrepresentations are intentional and coordinated. Several recent examples of 


Newtek’s efforts to promote its stock price include: 


• During the broad market sell-off in December 2018, Mr. Sloane abruptly scheduled a public 
conference call the day after Christmas to encourage investors to buy the stock. 


• On December 17, 2018, Newtek announced a 300,000-share stock repurchase plan to encourage 
investors to buy the stock. Not a single share was repurchased and Newtek was selling its stock 
again the following quarter (Q1’19).  


• Also, on December 17, 2018, the Company issued an 8-K to alert investors NEWT had been removed 
from the relatively obscure KBW Nasdaq Financial Sector Dividend Yield Index, suggesting the 
weakness in NEWT’s share price was a technically driven buying opportunity.  


• Management published preposterous statements meant to deceive retail investors into believing 
Newtek is not just a subprime commercial lender, but in fact develops and uses better CRM 
software than Salesforce.com and is now an investment play on cloud computing.  


“In addition, we have developed a financial and technology-based business model that 


enables us and our controlled portfolio companies to acquire and process our SMB clients in 


a cost-effective manner. This capability is supported in large part by NewTracker®, our 


patented prospect management technology software, which is similar to, but we believe is 


better than the system popularized by Salesforce.com.”12 


 “We can compete against Google and Microsoft Azure in this space.”13 


Exhibit 4: Barry Sloane; Newtek commercial
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





14 
 


 
Source: Newtek Television Advertisement 





9. Lack of Independent Board Oversight and Tier 3 Auditor (pg 57) 
For the last fourteen years, Newtek’s auditor has been RSM US, LLP. The business model of RSM 


provides little oversight to marginal accountants who may not have the qualifications to find 


employment at more reputable firms. Considering Newtek’s seemingly aggressive and subjective 


accounting policies, we’d note RSM was recently sanctioned for its failure to oversee the conduct of its 


accountants14 and appears to be the go-to firm for subprime finance companies utilizing “non-


traditional” accounting policies.15 


Newtek’s Board is comprised of just five members, two of whom are non-independent directors (the 


CEO and the Chief Lending Officer). Of the three “independent directors,” Mr. Salvatore Mulia has 


partnered with Mr. Sloane for 15 years. We believe significant conflicts exist between Board members, 


related executives and control companies, which includes the employment of Mr. Sloane’s brother and 


nephew in leadership positions.  


Newtek’s aggressive and misleading accounting may explain why Mr. Sloane has refused to hire a Chief 


Financial Officer. In lieu of a CFO, Newtek relies on its Chief Accounting Officer to report its finances. Yet 


even the CAO role appears unstable after Jennifer Eddelson abruptly resigned in 2019 and was replaced 


by her 33-year-old subordinate. Ms. Eddelson’s departure followed the abrupt resignation of her 


husband, Adam, who served as the controller of multiple Newtek unconsolidated subsidiaries.16 Oddly, 


despite the 2019 proxy disclosing Mr. Eddelson resignation, he still lists Newtek as his employer.17  





*************************
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





15 
 





Assuming Newtek can continue as a going concern, avoids sanctions from the DOJ, SBA and SEC, is not 


further implicated in the fraud its former employees allegedly committed, is spared the challenge of 


managing its credit portfolio in an economic slowdown, continues to convince its auditor to sign off 


on its misrepresentations, omissions, and exaggerations, all while maintaining constant access to the 


capital markets to fund cash flow deficits…. Even then, we still see at least 50% downside in Newtek’s 


shares as maintaining the façade of economic health becomes untenable under the weight and 


velocity of the Company’s deficiencies. We see much more significant downside if/when one of the 


levers in its scheme breaks.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





16 
 


Section 1:  


Newtek in Brief and a Crash Course in SBA Lending 


One silver lining of the financial crisis of 2007-2009 was that fatally flawed business models, and less 


than scrupulous management teams, generally did not survive the significant uptick in credit events and 


decrease in liquidity. As a result, individual investors have been largely sheltered from the mischief that 


was taking place heading into the upheaval. However, as the crisis fades further into the rearview 


mirror, impaired and unsustainable business models run by management teams willing to deceive 


investors have returned. Unfortunately, many of these companies attract retail investors. Enter Newtek 


Business Services. 


Don’t let Newtek’s name fool you. This is not a “business services” company. It is a subprime commercial 


lender. In fact, Newtek’s business model has more in common with the pre-crisis subprime mortgage 


securitizers such as New Century Financial and NovaStar Financial than it does any business services 


company. Like the pre-crisis subprime securitizers, Newtek is on an accelerating treadmill characterized 


by front-loading earnings recognition from originating loans to subprime borrowers. The ruse requires 


faster growth every year, so credit costs never catch up.  


Newtek is a Business Development Company (BDC) focused on Small Business Administration (SBA) 


loans. BDCs were created by Congress in the 1980’s through amendments to the Investment Company 


Act of 1940. BDC’s must substantially comply with rules and restrictions of the Investment Company Act 


with a few exceptions, the most notable being their ability to employ a limited amount of leverage; 


initially 1-to-1 but recently increased to 2-to-1. In exchange, the BDC is a pass-through entity that can 


avoid paying corporate taxes by passing through its income to investors in the form of unqualified 


dividends. For purposes of this investigation into Newtek, the relevant attributes of BDC regulation are 


the leverage restriction, the requirement to list the cost basis and fair value of every investment, and 


the ability to hold control positions in portfolio investments without consolidating their financials.  


Newtek’s decision to convert to a BDC in 2014 had countervailing pros and cons from the perspective of 


a management team willing to push the bounds of reason when it comes to the presentation of its 


financials. Justifying the conversion was the ability to wholly own “control companies,” yet not 


consolidate each subsidiary’s balance sheet or income statement. This gives management levers to pull 


when earnings need to be manufactured to cover a core operating shortfall, or boost book value to 


make up for a loss in another part of the business. Further, as there is no transparent market for SBA 


loans or their control companies, Newtek has wide latitude to discretionarily value assets. This 


“flexibility” is regularly on display each time Newtek reports results or files a 10Q or 10K. Please see 


Sections 3 and 4 for examples and a discussion of some of the strategies Newtek employs to manipulate 


its results.  


Unfortunately for management, as a Registered Investment Company (RIC) the BDC is compelled by the 


SEC to disclose the name, cost basis and fair value of each investment on a quarterly basis. With this 


disclosure, investors have the ability to judge how the portfolio is performing, track lawsuits, bankruptcy
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





17 
 


filings, delinquencies, and non-accrual migrations. We examined more than 2,200 Newtek loans and 


noted a clear pattern of deceit. There is a systematic pattern of misrepresentations, dramatic 


misevaluations, willingness to ignore and/or defer obvious credit impairments, to accrue income on 


loans that stopped paying and will never be collected, and even an operational inability to monitor 


credit deterioration on a timely basis. A granular analysis of Newtek’s portfolio leads to one undeniable 


conclusion: the portfolio is rife with very serious problems.  


As we discuss Newtek’s business, it is necessary to understand how the most prominent SBA lending 


program works, the pertinent characteristics of SBA loans, and the various business models 


incorporated by lenders focused on originating SBA loans.  


The largest SBA lending program is the SBA 7(a) Loan Program. Under the 7(a) program, originators can 


make loans that are 75% guaranteed by the SBA. The guaranty allows small businesses that would either 


not be deemed credit worthy by traditional lenders or would have to seek out expensive hard money 


lenders, to borrow at reasonable rates.  


Originators of SBA 7(a) loans can be divided into two categories; 1) portfolio lenders and 2) gain-on-sale 


(GOS) originators. Portfolio lenders treat their SBA originations like they would any commercial loan. 


They hold 100% of the loans they originate on their balance sheet and gradually earn income as the loan 


hopefully performs as expected. These lenders take significant credit risk on the 25% of the loan that is 


not guaranteed, but possess the comfort knowing as long as they complied with SBA underwriting 


guidelines, their potential loss on any one loan is limited to 25% of the balance. Incidentally, we are not 


aware of a single portfolio lender that holds whole SBA 7(a) loans at a premium to face, even though 


they own the guaranteed portion.  


GOS lenders like Newtek take a different approach. Rather than generate income over time by holding 


on to 100% of the originated loans, Newtek immediately sells the 75% guaranteed portion of each loan 


for a significant premium. Those premiums have averaged 11.73% over the last several years.18 The 


benefits of the GOS model are clear. Rather than earning a return over 5-7 years by patiently earning 


interest, most (we will argue more than 100%) of the economics of loans are recognized in the quarter 


in which they are originated. Therefore, the more borrowers a lender can find, the more that can be 


earned today.  


There are very significant drawbacks to the GOS model. First, by front-loading earnings recognition, 


companies that would like to show consistent earnings growth are forced to constantly increase 


originations. This severely limits management’s ability to look at the lending environment or economic 


outlook and determine that the prudent thing to do would be to pullback on lending. This is evident in 


Newtek’s results as the Company is constantly driving to lend more than it did the year before to (1) 


overcome a higher share count and higher debt load, and then (2) show earnings per share growth.  


Put another way, if management decided that for one reason or another it was prudent to cease, or just 


slow the growth of the unguaranteed SBA loan portfolio, earnings would plummet, and the dividend 


would be cut materially. This was the “challenge” faced by subprime mortgage originators in 2007, as 


well as other since defunct BDCs such as American Capital Strategies and Allied Capital (which
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





18 
 


incidentally unraveled in part from an investment in a rogue, top 10 SBA lender19). In fact, it is the 


dilemma of all lenders that pursue a capital-intensive business model which front loads revenue, but the 


capital intensity and credit risk are long-term. 


The second drawback is the lender is left with the 25% unguaranteed, high risk, low yielding (relative to 


the credit risk) participation in the loans it has sold. Over the course of the last several years Newtek has 


collected over 2,200 of these low-quality assets, of which 18.9% are delinquent, and 11.6% are 


nonperforming.    


The third drawback is in order to drive the immediate gratification of GOS revenue, Newtek must be 


willing to increase the size of its toxic, money losing unguaranteed SBA loan portfolio. The residual-risk 


loan portfolio grows at a materially faster rate than the Company can grow GOS revenue, piling up on 


the balance sheet, losing money and consuming capital. Worse still, the delinquent and non-performing 


loans are growing at an even faster rate than both originations and loans. This is the definition of 


unsustainable and yet the treadmill continues to accelerate. 


Exhibit 6: Unsustainable “Business Model” 


 
Source: Company documents 





It’s worth noting a couple other mechanics of SBA 7(a) lending. The SBA’s guaranty is contingent on a 


number of underwriting and documentation criteria.20 Under normal conditions a lender can only lose 


money on the participation it keeps. However, when the SBA determines its very specific guidelines 


were not followed it can revoke its guaranty and force the originator to buyback the loan at par, without 


the benefit of a guaranty. The SBA directs a lot of resources to audit the underwriting of loans that stop 


performing and is very willing to put nonperforming loans back to the originator. As such, if a lender is 


 100.0


 150.0


 200.0


 250.0


 300.0


 350.0


How Much Longer Can This Last?
12/31/2016=100


12 month trailing originations Portfolio at cost Non-performing loans


17.7% CAGR


24.3% CAGR


50.6% CAGR
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





19 
 


not adhering to the SBA’s rules and regulations, the lender may have credit exposure equal to 4-times 


what it shows on its balance sheet. This is exactly what is happening when Newtek is compelled to buy 


back loans from the SBA, and these forced loan repurchases have been spiking.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





20 
 


Section 2:  


Operating Cashflow Does Not Cover the Dividend… In Fact, it’s Not Even Close  


This report is full of descriptions of how Newtek chooses to define its income, examples of preposterous 


valuations and illustrations of laughable stock promotion by management; all the while begging the 


question, how do their accountants and investors let them get away with it? Newtek does not and 


cannot generate sufficient cash to cover the dividend its largely retail investors value so dearly. In fact, 


we generously adjust the Company’s presentation of operating cash flow UPWARD and find internally 


generated cash is still insufficient to pay its dividend, which necessitates external capital to cover 


payouts to investors.  


Over the last seven quarters (since the beginning of 2018), Newtek has paid $29.7 million more in 


dividends than it has generated from adjusted (upward) operating cash flow. The delta has 


incontrovertibly been financed with equity and debt issuance. Until recently, BDCs were limited to 1-to-


1 leverage. It is not a coincidence that over the period illustrated here, Newtek raised just over $15 


million of equity, which allowed it to raise an additional $15 million in debt. Combined, the $30 of 


capital raised perfectly bridges the $30 million dividend coverage shortfall.  


Exhibit 7: Even when adjusted up, cash flow does not cover dividends 


 
Source: SEC documents 





Newtek’s third quarter 2019 cash flow tables unequivocally show Newtek used $45.6 million of cash 


flow from operations. To bridge the cash flow shortfall relative to its dividend, Newtek has raised $42.2 


million of cash from financing (selling debt and equity). As seen in the table below, and discussed in this 


section, a material shortfall exists even when adjusting cash flow from operations upward by adding 


back the increase in the cost basis of investments.  


$s in thousands


Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3


Operating cash flow (as reported by NEWT) ($20,818) $8,180 ($36,906) ($24,122) ($17,140) ($9,572) ($18,961)


Add: Increase in cost basis of loans and investments $14,475 $16,977 $21,190 $27,827 $15,812 $16,370 $36,195


Net adjusted operating cash flow ($6,343) $25,157 ($15,716) $3,705 ($1,328) $6,798 $17,234


Cumulative adjusted operating cash flow ($6,343) $18,814 $3,098 $6,803 $5,475 $12,273 $29,507


Cumulative dividends paid ($7,202) ($14,839) ($23,383) ($32,433) ($39,787) ($48,269) ($59,168)


Cumulative delta between cash flow and dividends ($13,545) $3,975 ($20,285) ($25,630) ($34,312) ($35,996) ($29,661)


2018 2019
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





21 
 


Exhibit 8: Operating cash flow


 
Source: Newtek September 30, 2019 10Q 





Since the beginning of 2018, generously adjusting cash flow for increases in the cost basis of 


investments would add $148.8 million to the $119.3 million in negative operating cash flow reported. As 


such, the adjusted “economic cash flow” would still be just $29.5 million over the last 7 quarters. By 


comparison, Newtek declared and paid $59.2 million of dividends over the same period, resulting in a 


$29.7 million cash flow deficit relative to the dividend.  


Given the lack of cash income, stated leverage since the beginning of 2018 has increased by over 70%, 


from 0.78 debt-to-equity to 1.34 debt-to-equity. Economic leverage has increased significantly more if 


the Company’s fictional asset valuations are considered.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





22 
 


Section 3:  


Reported Earnings Are Manufactured and Distort Newtek’s Economic Reality  


Perhaps it goes without saying, but when operating earnings consistently appear to cover dividends, but 


operating cash flow consistently does not, something is wrong with one of the two measures. Newtek 


has a plethora of levers it pulls to manufacture earnings, while the cash flow statement is not subject to 


shenanigans such as intracompany payments or the exclusion of cash expenses in adjusted income 


definitions.          


With most Pyramid Schemes, operating cash flow generally exposes integrity deficiencies in metrics such 


as adjusted operating earnings. Newtek management promotes “adjusted net investment income” 


(ANII) as the best gauge to measure operating performance and its ability to distribute dividends. 


Unsurprisingly, ANII appears to cover the dividends Newtek declares. Since the beginning of 2018, 


Newtek has reported $3.59 of cumulative ANII per share, while paying $3.24 in total dividends. However, 


as discussed in the last section and as illustrated in this section, Newtek’s reported earnings are not 


representative of the Company’s cash flow or economics. The difference between the two metrics is the 


result of management’s tools to manufacture and inflate “reported” earnings. This misconduct does not 


impact the cash flow statement.             


Some of the tools management uses to overstate Newtek’s reported earnings include:  


• Failing to recognize significant credit losses (Section 6 is devoted to this shenanigan)  


• Recognizing interest income accrued on severely delinquent and even bankrupt borrowers 


• “Roundtripping” dividends from “control companies” 


• Subleasing office space to wholly owned control companies, classifying the rent as income to 
Newtek, and then raising the rent to provide extra income 


• Charging “managerial assistance fees” to control companies and recognizing those fees as ANII 
(but then backing those fees out when valuing their control investments!)  


• Capitalizing non-cash servicing gains through ANII and then writing those gains down through 
unrealized depreciation which never flows through ANII. This is another method Newtek uses to 
exclude credit losses in its operating income calculation as defaulted loans erode the value of 
the capitalized servicing asset.  


Newtek has a tacit policy of only recognizing credit expenses through ANII after all efforts have been 


made to fully resolve a defaulted loan. As such, the inherent losses in loans like: 


• Mojo Brands Media which filed Chapter 11 on May 1, 2015 


• Custom Software, Inc which filed for bankruptcy protection on February 5, 2016 


• T&B Boots which declared bankruptcy on June 4, 2018  


• B&B Fitness and Barbell which filed bankruptcy on June 6, 2016  
…and dozens of other companies that have filed for bankruptcy, or ceased operations, have yet to be 


recognized through ANII.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





23 
 


If we GENEROUSLY assume the losses imbedded, but not yet realized through earnings at Newtek, are 


ONLY equal to the net unrealized depreciation the Company acknowledges through its highly 


questionable valuation methodology, we can identify $19.3 million of credit losses that have been 


hidden from investors. Realized credit losses will ultimately be much higher than $19.3 million as this 


figure only includes the unrealized depreciation management acknowledged thus far and as 


documented in this report, management never chooses to value an asset conservatively when there is 


an option to be aggressive. Further, this cohort of nonperforming loans includes dozens of severely 


delinquent, and even bankrupt borrowers, for which Newtek continues to value their unguaranteed 


participation at or very close to par. Finally, the $19.3 million does not reflect any of the inevitable losses 


from the 100+ loans that Newtek categorizes as performing, despite significant delinquency. 


Nonetheless, illustrating how severely Newtek overstates its results by hiding credit losses, the $19.3 


million equates to $1.00 per share of fictitious “earnings.”   


Another technique Newtek uses to overstate earnings and the health of its credit portfolio is accruing 


interest income from borrowers who are severely delinquent. Newtek acknowledges that 18.9% of its 


unguaranteed SBA loans are delinquent, with the vast majority severely delinquent. Specifically, more 


than 84% of Newtek’s delinquent loans, or 15.9% of total loans, are greater than 90 days delinquent. 


Incredibly, many of these loans are still deemed current and performing by Newtek. In its third quarter 


10Q filing, Newtek disclosed only 11.6% of loans are on non-performing status (i.e. not contributing to 


ANII), which means Newtek is accruing interest income on the 4.3% of its loan portfolio that is over 90 


days delinquent (Note: in its investor presentation, NEWT inexplicably states nonperformers are 10.2% 


of loans, which excludes nonperformers the SBA has forced the Company to repurchase at par). But it 


gets even more dishonest. We found 37 loans in the third quarter 10Q where Newtek continues to 


accrue interest despite the fact the borrower filed for bankruptcy protection.  


Exhibit 9: 18.9% delinquencies at 9/30/2019  


 
Source: 9/30/2019 10Q 





Exhibit 10: 11.6% nonperformers once you read the fine print
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





24 
 


 
Source: Newtek Investor Presentation; 11/7/2019 





The timing and amount of dividends Newtek pays itself from portfolio companies is another scheme 


designed to manipulate earnings. For example, and as seen in Exhibit 11, Newtek paid itself $8.975 


million in dividends from Newtek Merchant Solutions (NMS) through the first three quarters of 2019. 


And as is apparent in Exhibit 12, the result of these dividend payment was a $3.8 million decline in the 


equity account of NMS, indicating dividends through the first nine months of 2019 exceeded income by 


$3.8 million. This dividend income was included in ANII, driving “operating earnings” $0.20 per share 


above what NMS actually earned through the first nine months of the year. 


Exhibit 11: Dividends from control companies
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





25 
 

















 
Source: NEWT 10Qs 





Exhibit 12: NMS balance sheet 





Source: NEWT 10Qs
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





26 
 


Using controlled portfolio companies to “juice” results was not isolated to 2019, but rather is an 


enduring fixture in the Newtek scheme to overstate income. In both 2017 and 2018, “Total members 


equity” for NMS declined (net of a capital infusion from merging NMS with another Newtek control 


company), and we suspect it declined in previous years as well before Newtek had to disclose NMS’s 


balance sheet considering at year-end 2016, the wholly owned portfolio company had negative equity 


and appears to have required a capital injection.   


It would be incorrect to assume the value Newtek assigned to NMS declined over the first three quarters 


of the year since it drew down NMS’s capital account to pay the parent a dividend. As seen in Exhibit 13, 


despite a decline in the capital account, Newtek management wrote the valuation of the company UP by 


$5 million over the first nine months of 2019.  


Exhibit 13: Value of NMS Written Up While the Capital Account Goes Down 


 
Source: 9/30/2019 10Q 





There does not appear to be any correlation between what Newtek dividends itself from its control 


companies and the net income of those companies. Further, Newtek does not appear to consistently 


account for intracompany transactions that should be netted to zero: expenses at the portfolio 


companies often become fee revenue at Newtek Hold Co (contributing to ANII). But this is not the way 


Newtek accounts for its control companies. In some cases, Newtek charges its wholly-owned portfolio 


companies rent and “managerial assistance fees,” which are then reported as operating income 


accounting entries for NEWT, even when the portfolio companies are losing money.  


Exhibit 14 shows that through the first nine months of 2019, Newtek had charged its control companies 


$485,000, or $0.03 per share, in rent for office space in NEWT’s Lake Success, New York office building. 


This rental income was a 38% increase year-over-year. We do not believe rental rates in the Lake 


Success office leasing market have increased by 38%. Nonetheless, this accounting scheme allows 


Newtek to overstate its economic profit, despite no benefit to cash flow as monies simply move from 


one NEWT pocket (control companies) to the other (NEWT Holdco).
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





27 
 


Exhibit 14: Charging its Control Companies Rent   


 
Source: 9/30/2019 10Q 





In addition to rent, Newtek charges its control companies “managerial assistance fees” for the time 


NEWT estimates its officers spend providing “managerial assistance.” Through the first three quarters of 


2019 these managerial assistance fees amounted to $1.7 million, or $0.09 per share (Exhibit 15). These 


fees are a contra expense, contributing to ANII on a dollar-for-dollar basis by reducing Newtek’s 


“Salaries and benefits” expense line. In aggregate, overstating reported income by $2.2 million has some 


materiality, but it is more indicative of the misleading reports and culture Newtek embraces., while 


helping to illustrate why such a material delta exists between cash flow, ANII, and dividends.  


Exhibit 15: “Managerial Assistance Fees” have offset 14% of Newtek’s compensation expense through 


three quarters of 2019 


 
Source: 9/30/2019 10Q 





Capitalized servicing income is yet another shenanigan Newtek uses to overstate results. When Newtek 


books a gain for the sale of the guaranteed portion of SBA loans, part of that gain is the net present 


value of the net revenue Newtek expects to receive for servicing the loan over the life of the loan (non-
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





28 
 


cash on Day 1). This non-cash capitalized gain is reflected on the balance sheet as “Servicing assets, at 


fair value.” Therefore, unrealized appreciation of the servicing asset would occur if Newtek was 


conservative in the assumptions it employed to value this future revenue stream. Conversely, unrealized 


depreciation would occur if Newtek were too aggressive in estimating how much it will earn from 


serving its loans. Unsurprisingly, Newtek has been consistently overaggressive in its estimates, and as a 


result, has recognized “unrealized depreciation” to its serving asset every year since 2014 (when it 


converted to a BDC). Simply, it means the gain-on-sale run through operating earnings has been 


overstated for the last five years. And despite overstating its operating earnings by overestimating the 


value of servicing, Newtek (nor its auditors) have taken steps to provide more accurate assumptions. 


Why? Because the offsetting correction, unrealized depreciation, DOES NOT run through ANII.  


And make no mistake, the overstatement is material: 


• The 2017 “adjustment” accounted for $0.20 of the $1.77 of ANII Newtek reported 


• The 2018 adjustment accounted for $0.30 of the $1.94 in ANII reported 


• The first three quarters of 2019 adjustment is equal to $0.28 of the $1.65 in ANII reported  
 


Exhibit 16: Unrealized depreciation of the servicing asset through three quarters of 2019 


 
Source: 9/30/2019 10Q
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





29 
 


Exhibit 17: Unrealized depreciation of the servicing asset for 2018 and 2017 


 
Source: 12/31/2018 10K 





This significant overstatement of ANII is yet another example of how Newtek’s accounting shenanigans 


have insulated reported operating income from its disastrous credit performance. Management may 


suggest that its SBA gain-on-sale income has been overstated because of faster repayment speeds than 


what was assumed when they estimated the value of servicing revenue. What they will be less willing to 


reveal is that SBA loan defaults are treated as repayments since the SBA pays out the holder of the 


guaranteed portion of the loan the principal upon default. As such, it is Newtek’s terrible credit 


performance that is driving increased “repayment rates,” which in turn causes future cash flow from the 


serving asset to be reassessed.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





30 
 


Section 4:  


Management’s Approach to Valuing Assets Means Stated Book Value is Disconnected from Reality 


On paper, Newtek appears to be valued at 140% of Net Asset Value. However, Newtek utilizes even 


more dishonest creativity to value its assets than it does to manufacture earnings. A more conventional 


approach to asset valuation that only considers the most egregious instances of overstatement suggests 


NEWT currently trades north of 180% of its net asset value (NAV).    


We’ll start with the unguaranteed SBA loan portfolio. Lenders always face legitimate questions about 


whether to mark down the value of seemingly impaired loans on their balance sheet. We believe 


Newtek may be the only lender in the country willing to mark floating rate, subprime, residual credit risk 


loan participations at a premium to par.  


Simply put, the non-investment grade participations Newtek holds are by definition worth less than par. 


For purposes of an illustration, let’s assume a newly originated $1 million SBA loan, made in a highly 


competitive market, for which the guaranteed portion has NOT been sold, is worth par. In other words, 


it is worth the sum of the value of the guaranteed portion and the value of the unguaranteed portion. In 


the real world, this loan would be worth slightly less than par because a bank would have to put a loan 


loss reserve against it, but to be conservative we will assume par is reasonable. Now consider that 


Newtek sells off the 75% guaranteed portion at the market clearing premium of 12%. This implies that 


the fair value of the 75% guaranteed portion of the loan is worth $840,000. If the whole loan is worth $1 


million, and the guaranteed portion of the loan is worth $840,000, this would imply the fair value of the 


unguaranteed portion is worth $160,000. In its simplest form, the seller of the guaranteed portion of the 


loan would book a gain of $90,000 for the premium received on the 75% of the loan they sold, and the 


$250,000 participation piece would be marked down by $90,000, to $160,000. As a result, the 


participation piece would trade be worth 64% of face (160K / 250K) to keep the fair value of both pieces 


at $1 million.  


Exhibit 18: Sum-of-the-parts illustration 


 
Source: Copperfield Research 





This is admittedly a stylized illustration that ignores some of the value of servicing SBA loans and that 


preferred lender platforms can generate some value if they can originate SBA 7(a) loans with reasonable 


credit performance. But the example broadly illustrates that the risky 25% participation of SBA loans 


Face value of SBA 7(a) loan $1,000.0


Guaranteed portion (75%) $750.0


Unguranteed portion (25%) $250.0


GOS premium available 12.0%


Value of the guaranteed portion to a buyer $840.0


Value of the unguaranteed, first loss position $160.0


Value of the unguaranteed portion as a % of par 64.0%
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





31 
 


that participate in the first dollar of credit loss are NOT worth MORE than par immediately after 


origination.  


With this basic algebra in mind, consider at 9/30/2019, Newtek valued 1,216 of its 2,058 performing 


loans at a premium to par! This includes over 400 loans that are marked in-line or at a premium to 


where Newtek was able to sell the guaranteed portions of their SBA loans. This is incredible! Despite 


no prepayment penalties, or warrants, or any other mechanism which could allow Newtek to receive 


more than the interest and principal it is due from its borrowers, management has deemed its 


unguaranteed, first loss loan participations worth more than the face value of the loan… AND often 


Newtek values this unguaranteed piece at a premium to the government guaranteed portions. 


Considering the fact 7.12% of Newtek’s performing loans are delinquent, there is simply no justification 


for Newtek’s aggressive approach.   


The only reasons a loan made in a competitive market should be worth more than par are if the credit 


has improved materially from when the loan was made or that the loan carries both a fixed rate and 


prepayment protections and interest rates have fallen implying a higher than market yield on the loan. 


Neither of these are the case. The interest rate of every loan marked above par floats with Prime, does 


not carry any prepayment protection, and has not shown any credit improvement whatsoever.  


In the Executive Summary of this report, we provided a few examples of the types of loans Newtek had 


determined were worth well north of par, including unguaranteed loans to Purple Cow House of 


Pancakes (114.6%), Little Tree Huggers Child Care (114.4%) and 16 of their 20 performing bowling alley 


loans. In an effort to demonstrate we did not cherry-pick those examples, we’ll add to the list: 


Dink’s Market at 115.9% of par- 








Indigo Hair Studio and Day Spa at 115.8% of par-
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





32 
 





And Pitts Package Store at 115.6% of par- 





This is not to say these are not good businesses, owned and run by productive entrepreneurs. The point 


is there are no circumstances that would support these loans being carried significantly above par.  


In fact, despite being the primary servicer of every SBA loan it originates, it is clear Newtek has no idea 


as to whether its borrowers are prospering or struggling. We can cite multiple instances, like Ameritube 


LLC to which Newtek had extended two loans, valued at 104.7% and 114.6% of par respectively at 


September 30, 2019…
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





33 
 


 
Source: Newtek 9/30/2019 10Q 





…and then filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection 48 days later…
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





34 
 


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





35 
 


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court 





There is ample evidence that Newtek does not have the systems in place to understand how its 


borrowers are doing, much less determine that loans are worth more than the principal owed. We can 


cite multiple recent examples of Newtek’s borrowers filing for bankruptcy without the Company 


realizing their borrower was even in trouble.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





36 
 


Consider Allied Welding as a not particularly unusual example. As of June 30, 2019, the loan is listed in 


NEWT’s 10Q as performing and is marked at 110.8% of par. 


 
Source: 6/30/2019 10Q 





The problem is that seventeen days later (7/17/19), Allied had filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy. Newtek 


did finally get the message with the bankruptcy filing as the loan had been deemed “Non-Performing” 


by the time Newtek filed its September 30 10Q. Amazingly, the loan was only marked down to 94.5%.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





37 
 


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court 





Conference Services International was listed as a performing loan in Newtek’s June 30 10Q…
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





38 
 


  
Source: 6/30/2019 10Q 





…but had filed for bankruptcy protection 3 weeks earlier. Remember, Newtek is the primary servicer of 


every SBA loan it originates, yet they seem completely oblivious to the credit profile of their borrowers, 


including filing for bankruptcy protection in a U.S. court!
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





39 
 


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court 





A few more examples among the dozens we have found:
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





40 
 


In Q4 of 2019 two related companies, Cardinal Homes and Alouette Holdings filed Chapter 11 


(December 2nd), despite showing up on Newtek’s books at just under $1 million and 105% of par on 


September 30th.  


Or Recycling Revolution which was marked at 112.6% of cost at 9/30/19 and filed Chapter 11 on 


11/7/19. We’ve even found 37 loans to bankrupt companies that Newtek still has categorized as 


“Performing.” 


Aside from incompetence or fraud, we believe there is simply no other explanation to justify Newteks’s 


carrying values. While loans secured by collateral, often real estate, could provide some protection and 


recovery, this would not support carrying loans of bankrupt borrowers at, near, or in some cases above 


par. For example, Evergreen Pallet LLC, which filed for bankruptcy on September 17th, 2019, just two 


weeks before Newtek closed the books on the third quarter. While Evergreen appears to be a troubled 


loan for which Newtek has a lien on some collateral, how can a loan to a borrower that has filed Chapter 


11 still be accruing interest and marked at 103.7% of par at September 30th…. Especially considering the 


vast majority of Newtek’s exposure is unsecured (Exhibit 19), behind the IRS in terms of priority, and in 


the same category as other subprime lenders such as Kabbage and hard money lenders such as SRS 


Capital. (Note: The difference between the claim listed on the bankruptcy filing and the amount listed in 


Newtek’s 10Q is due to sale of the 75% SBA guaranteed interest on this loan.)  


 
Source: Newtek 9/30/2019 10Q
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





41 
 


Exhibit 19:


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court 





Newtek may claim their loans are often secured by real estate which is one reason investors need not be 


concerned by their dramatically poor credit statistics. What we’d point out is that when loans are 


secured by real estate, the vast majority of the real estate pledged are single tenant, owner-occupied, 


non-centrally located properties worth very little without a viable business paying rent.  


It is worth noting, the irrational valuations discussed thus far describe loans that (at least until recently) 


were purportedly performing well. What does that say about the true economic value and probability of 


repayment of loans this management team has valued at 99% or 85% of par? And what should we make 


of the 65 non-performing loans the Company has marked at 90% or higher? We believe the culture of
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





42 
 


deception and exaggeration permeates this organization making any financial presentations subject to 


skepticism.  


But it is not just the value of its SBA loans that Newtek appears to overstate. In the September 2019 


quarter, Newtek’s 50/50 joint venture with Blackrock TCP Capital Corp (TCPC) became operational (the 


strategy is to make conventional – as in not guaranteed by the SBA – loans). In its first quarter of 


operations, NEWT paid itself a $428,000 dividend and marked up the value of its investment in the JV by 


7.5%. Contrast this valuation approach with its 50/50 JV partner, TCPC, who marked up their 50% share 


of the JV by 3.0% and did NOT take out a dividend (Exhibit 20). On an annualized basis, Newtek 


recognized a 44.3% return on its $12.2 million cost basis investment in its first quarter of operation.  


Exhibit 20: Same asset. Different valuation 


 
Source: NEWT and TCBC September 30, 2019 10Qs 





Incredibly, the aggressive marks extend to the loans within the JV as well. Consider: 


• Two floating rate loans totaling $11.1 million on real estate for a youth soccer complex. Newtek 
marked the loan at a 9.6% premium to principal just a few weeks after origination.  


• A $2.3 million unguaranteed loan to 10 28th Ave SW Associates LLC, which appears to be a Planet 
Fitness gym in Minot, North Dakota. This loan was marked to a 10.3% premium a few weeks after 
origination. 


• A $436,000 loan marked up to 108.9% on a suburban office building in Cocoa Beach, Florida, housing 
what appears to be a derivatives trading company. 


• An $11.5 million loan on warehouse space that houses a movie and video camera rental business in 
North Hollywood, California, which was immediately marked up by 4 points.  
 


It is as if the concept of lending money and then earning a return as the money is successfully paid 


back with interest is foreign to a Newtek’s management who, due to the way it runs its SBA lending 


business, is accustomed to recognizing a significant return as soon as it wires proceeds to its borrowers.  


Specific to the JV with TCPC, the aggressive accounting and income recognition does not impugn the 


integrity of Newtek’s financial statements. Instead, it is just another example of the aggressive and 


arbitrary approach Newtek uses to value assets. At least on its Q3’19 conference call, CEO Barry Sloane 


seemed to acknowledge the shaky accounting of this new, conventional lending business, equating their 


valuation scheme to the method that leads to the nonsensical SBA loan valuations.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





43 
 


Casey Alexander (Compass Pointe): Alright. So I'm kind of unfamiliar with the process of a DCF analysis 


on a loan that creates a mark as soon as the loan is made, that doesn't have a government guaranty 


related  to it, that marks 105.6 as soon as it goes on the books. Can you give me some more color on how 


that process works? 


Barry Sloane (NEWT CEO): Sure. The way the process would work, Casey, and it's the same way that we 


mark our 7(a) loans. You see, Casey, you look at our Ks and Qs every quarter, right, for the last 5 years? 


And when you look at our uninsured portions of our loans, Casey, those are nonguaranteed loans, right? 


Is that a yes? 


Casey Alexander (Compass Pointe): Yes 


Barry Sloane (NEWT CEO): Okay. We use the same methodology to mark these loans as those loans. In 


other words, they have no guarantee on it. They are effectively conventional loans in nature because 


they're not guaranteed. We take a 100% of the risk on that uninsured portion of the loan portfolio. So 


what we do is we're unique in that we use the securitization market. We know where A trade, BBB- 


trade, BBs, and we spread the market clearing yield to the value of the loans. Based upon what we 


believe will be a 20% cumulative gross default, a 40% severity, which is what we've experienced in the 


7(a) world over 17 years. Although we do believe the quality of these loans will be higher, to come up 


with a price based upon discounted cash flow. That's how you do it. I mean, you know discounted cash 


flow. And it's nothing that we haven't done in the uninsured portion of the 7(a) portfolio. So it's risks. It's 


the same credit box. It's just the loans are larger. It's the same ecosystem. It's the same referring parties. 


There is nothing different to it.21 


Moving on from TCPC, Newtek’s management has also employed a strategy of exaggeration, omission 


and tortured definitions to portray Controlled Investments as worth more than their actual value. For 


example, Newtek Merchant Solutions (NMS), which has a cost basis of $16.4 million, is listed with a “Fair 


Value” of $121.3 million on Newtek’s balance sheet. NMS is an Independent Sales Organization (ISO), 


pursuing a business model that involves signing up merchants with banks and processors to offer credit 


and debit card purchases. Newtek presents the value it has placed on NMS at 7.6x FY 2019 forecasted 


Adjusted EBITDA, which seems reasonable when compared to a selection of payments companies with 


EBITDA multiples ranging from 13.6x to 33.3x (Exhibit 21). But there are multiple issues with this 


comparison.  


1. NMS is NOT a fintech company. Its business is only casually related to the “comparable” 
companies management lists as its peers. NMS is soliciting sole proprietor retailers to allow NMS 
to bring in a third party’s hardware and connect with another network, so payments can be 
processed by someone else. The companies Newtek uses as comps are integrated 
software/hardware/networking companies building out payments platforms integrated into the 
software applications of restaurants, physician practices, grocery store chains and so on.  


2. The multiple Newtek calculates is based on the equity “fair value” of NMS, not the enterprise 
value as is presented for the comps.22 The comparables have significant debt and would look 
much cheaper if we compared EBITDA to equity value. While Newtek does not disclose how
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





44 
 


much debt NMS has, we do know it has some and believe including it (which is the right way to 
look at valuation) would increase NMS’s EBITDA multiple by at least 1 to 2 turns. 


3. The multiples of the comparables they present are materially misleading. For example, Newtek 
presents Global Payments (GPN) as trading at 36.8x 2019 EBITDA without disclosing that GPN’s 
enterprise value includes the $25 billion acquisition of Total System Services that had closed on 
9/18/2019, but the 2019 EBITDA figure was based on nine months of GPN-standalone 
operations. The meaningful measure of GPN’s valuation is nowhere near 36.8x. We were also 
left scratching our head that in a presentation dated December 10th, 2019 they included 
Worldpay, Inc. as a comparable trading at 22.2x EBITDA even though Worldpay’s acquisition by 
Fidelity National Information Services had closed on 7/31/2019. We looked for a footnote at 
least. There was none.  


4. The “adjusted EBITDA” figure Newtek uses for NMS is not comparable to the “peers” it 
identifies. It backs out the “managerial assistance fees” Newtek charges NMS for the time 
management spends on NMS (as noted earlier, management includes the fees for Newtek 
Holdco, but now excludes the expenses when valuing NMS). Either management is providing 
real service to NMS and the fees should not be backed out or they are an artificial way of 
goosing Newtek’s ANII in which case they can be backed out since management is not really 
doing anything. If this is the case, Newtek has an IRS issue because it is artificially suppressing 
the income of a tax paying subsidiary by transferring income to the non-tax paying BDC.   





Exhibit 21: Not comparable 


 
Source: Newtek Investor Deck; 11/7/2019 





The valuations of Newtek’s other control companies are also a web of obfuscation. Many no longer 


operate and have been written down to zero, including the loans NEWT the BDC provided Newtek’s 


wholly owned control companies. In typical Newtek fashion, they have not been completely written off 


because that would require admitting to a realized loss which would impact ANII. Others appear on their 


way to zero. While NMS accounts for over 60% of “Control Investments” value, there does not appear to
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





45 
 


be any meaningful value in the entire portfolio. Instead, these control investments appear to exist for 


the sole purpose of providing management another lever to manipulate the income and book value of 


Newtek the parent.  


Exhibit 22: “Control Investments” 





 
Source: Newtek 9/30/2019 10Q
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





46 
 


Section 5:  


Is Newtek the Riskiest or the Worst Lender in America? Perhaps Both.  


Newtek’s non-performing loan portfolio at September 30, 2019 was 11.6% of total loans. We would 


note Newtek reported their non-performers at 9/30/2019 as 10.23%, however, the Company 


inexplicably excluded $6.5 million in non-performing loans it was forced to repurchase from the SBA. 


According to S&P Global, there were only 10 other public lenders in the US with non-performers over 5% 


and only three that exceeded 10%. Incidentally, the three with non-performers exceeding 10% include 


RAIT Financial (RASFQ), which has filed for bankruptcy, World Acceptance (WRLD), which is a deep 


subprime consumer lender that has the same tiny auditor as NEWT (RSM), and AG Mortgage Trust 


(MITT), which is in the business of acquiring non-performing loans from other lenders at a deep discount 


to face. Four of the other ten lenders with non-performers that exceed 5% actually have business 


models focused on acquiring non-performing loans. 


Exhibit 23: Highest Non-Accrual Rates Among Public US Lenders 


 
Source: S&P Global 





Newtek’s 30-day+ delinquency rate was 18.9% on September 30, 2019. According to S&P Global, 


Newtek’s delinquency rate is the single highest of any public lender in the country. Only seven other US 


lenders have delinquency rates over 5%, and again that group includes companies which focus on 


purchasing delinquent loans.  


Exhibit 24: Highest Delinquency Rates Among Public US Lenders 


Nonaccrual Loans/


Total Loans


Colony Credit Real Estate, Inc. 5.49%


Enova International, Inc. 6.63%


New Residential Investment Corp. 6.68%


Ellington Financial Inc. 6.74%


On Deck Capital, Inc. 7.29%


E*TRADE Financial Corporation 7.33%


SWK Holdings Corporation 9.70%


AG Mortgage Investment Trust, Inc. 10.12%


World Acceptance Corporation 10.91%


RAIT Financial Trust* 18.75%


Newtek Business Services 11.62%


* Filed for bankruptcy protection
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





47 
 





 
Source: S&P Global 





For perspective, Newtek’s asset quality is not just bad, it is historically bad, especially in the context of a 


healthy economy. Looking back to the height of the Great Recession, S&P has record of only 18 lenders 


with non-performers that exceeded 10% at 9/30/2008. Of these 18 lenders with non-accruals on par 


with Newtek, only 3 survived… and just barely: $24 million market cap Citizens Bancshares (CZBS), $31 


million market cap Oxford Bank (OXBC), and iStar Financial (STAR)23 which survived because of 


significant unpledged real estate assets. 


Newtek’s abysmal credit performance is unique and can’t be attributed to the SBA asset class. This 


becomes clear when comparing Newtek to other SBA lenders for which credit statistics are available. A 


comparison with Live Oak Bancshares, one of the three largest SBA originators in the country, is 


illuminating. As seen in the exhibits below, assuming 100% of Live Oak’s unguaranteed nonperforming 


loans are associated with its unguaranteed SBA portfolio, we can calculate a nonperforming loan rate of 


2.24%. This implies Newtek originated loans go bad at more than 5-times the rate of this “peer.” And for 


the record, Live Oak carries its SBA portfolio at a discount to par.    


Exhibit 25: Live Oak Bancshares credit statistics 





30-Day+


Delinquency 


Rate


Alliance Data Systems 5.13%


Nicholas Financial, Inc. 6.76%


RAIT Financial Trust* 8.56%


Chimera Investment Corporation 10.80%


Nelnet, Inc. 11.49%


Consumer Portfolio Services, Inc. 12.40%


Newtek Business Services 18.90%


* Filed for bankruptcy protection
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





48 
 


Source: Live Oak Bancshares Third Quarter, 2019 Results Press Release; 10/23/2019  





Exhibit 26: Live Oak Compared to Newtek 


 
Source: Company documents 





One explanation for why the credits Newtek originates perform so poorly is Newtek appears to focus 


on the worst possible businesses. More than 90% of Newtek’s originations (2,033 out of 2,300 loans) 


are Prime +275, which is the SBA mandated maximum yield allowed for the 7(a) program. The maximum 


yield fetches the highest price when Newtek sells the guaranteed portions of its originations, but it also 


means the Company is left with first loss participations of the riskiest borrowers, within this risky asset 


class. Further, SBA borrowers that become better credits will immediately refinance relatively expensive 


SBA loans, which never carry pre-payment penalties per SBA guidelines. This suggests Newtek suffers 


from a self-inflicted adverse selection process, where the loans that reside in its portfolio are credits 


more traditional lenders will not touch. 


Worse still, there are indications Newtek’s credit underwriting is getting worse as the company stretches 


for growth. The migration of loans from origination to delinquency to nonperforming appears to be 


quickening.  


Take the single largest SBA loan in Newtek’s portfolio as an example. Newtek originated a $5 million 


loan to Simkar LLC Neo Lights Holding Inc in the fourth quarter of 2018 and immediately wrote the 


unguaranteed portion up to 109.8% of par (Exhibit 27). Less than one full quarter later, on March 6th, 


2019, Simkar LLC filed for bankruptcy protection. Two day later Neo Lights Holding followed suit (Exhibit 


28). It appears as though the borrower then attempted to transfer a small amount of cash out of the 


bankrupt companies and into the third legal entity to which Newtek lent, but the Bankruptcy Court 


Trustee quickly sued Kalco Lighting for Fraudulent Transfer which may provide some insight into the 


type of borrowers Newtek has courted (Exhibit 29).  


$000 9/30/2019


Live Oak Bancshares


Guaranteed loans serviced $2,802,073


Implied unguaranteed loans on the balance sheet* $934,024


Nonperforming loans $20,959


NPL/Unguaranteed SBA loans 2.24%


Newtek Business Services


Unguarnateed SBA loans (cost) $397,745


Nonperforming loans $46,015


NPL/Unguaranteed SBA loans 11.57%


*Assumes 25% unguranteed participation
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





49 
 


Amazingly, Newtek appeared in the dark (or worse) as the Simkar loan was further written up to 111% 


of par as of the March 31, 2019 10Q (Exhibit 30)! Newtek was eventually alerted to the fact its borrower 


had filed bankruptcy as the loan was subsequently classified as nonperforming (Exhibit 31). But by the 


end of the third quarter of 2019, the $4.5 million portion of the loan Newtek had sold found its way back 


on Newtek’s balance sheet as the Company was compelled to buyback the guaranteed portion of the 


loan ($4.5 million) from the SBA at par (Exhibit 32). To recap, Simkar went from a $500,000 loan carried 


by Newtek for $555,000, to a $5 million nonperforming loan, to a bankrupt borrower! It is important 


to note that the reason Newtek would need to buy the guaranteed portion back is that underwriting did 


not meet SBA standards and if that’s the case, it follows that the $4.5 million Newtek repurchased will 


not end up being guaranteed by the SBA. And again, this is not an isolated incident. With 35 bankruptcy 


filings in 2017, 45 in 2018, 61 in 2019 and given the fact that the majority of loan defaults do not even 


involve bankruptcy court, there are many tales similar to the one described above and illustrated below.  


Exhibit 27: Newtek Originates a Loan to Simkar LLC, Neo Lights Holding Inc Kalco Lighting LLC in Q4, 


2018 and Immediately Marks the Loan to 109.8% of Par 


 
Source: Newtek 12/31/2018 10K 





Exhibit 28: The Borrower Almost Immediately Files for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Protection
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





50
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





51 
 


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court 





Exhibit 29: The Borrower Attempts to Protect Some Cash
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





52 
 


 
Source: US Bankruptcy Court 





Exhibit 30: After the Bankruptcy Filings Newtek Marks the Loan Up Further. It is Still Classified as 


Performing
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





53 
 


 
Source: Newtek 3/31/2019 10Q  





Exhibit 31: Newtek Finally Gets the Message That Its Borrower is Bankrupt, Downgrades it to 


Nonperforming and Marks Down the Fair Value 


 
Source: Newtek 9/30/2019 10Q  





Exhibit 32: Newtek is Compelled to Buyback the Guaranteed Portion it Sold Back in Q4, 2018 


 
Source: Newtek 9/30/2019 10Q
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





54 
 


The SBA and Newtek investors are not the only victims of Newtek’s inability to underwrite good 


credits and manage the poor credits. Counterparties that acquire the guaranteed portion of Newtek 


originated loans are also harmed. These investors pay significant premiums for their guaranteed 


participation in Newtek originations with the assumption they will earn interest on these loans for many 


years. However, the rapidity by which many of these loans default leaves some investors with no choice 


but to litigate, a route Newtek seems all too willing to pursue.  


In a typical case, an investor pays an 11-13% premium for an SBA guaranteed loan that defaults within 


90 days of purchase. The default is treated as a prepayment by the SBA as it makes the investor whole 


on principal and accrued interest but not on the premium paid or the interest the investor expected to 


earn over the life of the loan. To protect purchasers, sales agreements typically include language 


protecting the investor should a loan default within 90 days of settlement. Under most circumstances, 


this will be a non-binding protection as the chances of a loan default within such a short time period 


should be miniscule, but as the facts reveal, Newtek is not an example of a typical lender. We have 


found numerous examples of Newtek originated loans defaulting within a quarter of origination, and 


even some defaulting so quickly that investors have the opportunity to exercise their rights to be made 


whole on the premium they paid Newtek. Even then, Newtek does not want to acknowledge or pay for 


its mistakes. (Exhibit 33) 


Exhibit 33: Newtek Investors and the SBA Are Not NEWT’s Only Victims
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





55
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





56 
 


 
Source: U.S. District Court, Western District of Tennessee 





For the record, Newtek settled with BCMHIF a year later and three years after originating and selling the 


loan. While we are not privy to the settlement terms, court records suggest Newtek paid most, if not all 


of what was owed. We believe many more lawsuits could follow as Newtek’s credit performance 


continues to be the worst in the industry.  


The importance of Newtek’s abysmal credit performance can’t be overstated. We believe the SBA is 


aware of Newtek’s reckless lending policies and the risk Newtek presents to the SBA program. The 


dramatic increase in loans the SBA appears to be forcing Newtek to repurchase suggests the SBA is 


looking hard at Newtek and whether it deserves its preferred lender status. Losing said status would be 


catastrophic to Newtek’s revenue.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





57 
 


Section 6:  


Newtek Refuses to Recognize Credit Losses 


Management is quick to point out that despite their disastrous underlying credit statistics, net credit 


losses have been contained. In its most recent quarter, Newtek reported trailing-twelve month realized 


charge-offs of 0.87%. This metric is not just misleading, it is wantonly irresponsible to use it as 


reassurance given the putrid credit statistics. Management has a misaligned incentive to keep charge-


offs as low as possible, even if it means violating accounting norms. 


Realized losses are a component of the ANII metric management uses as its primary measure of 


operating performance and dividend capacity. Indefinitely deferring this material expense leaves 


investors with the impression Newtek is far more profitable and healthier than is the case. Accurately 


reflecting the economics of its loan portfolio would be catastrophic to its scheme to convince investors it 


earns its dividend. Unfortunately for Newtek’s retail investors, the losses exist and will eventually be 


reflected, whether Newtek extends its charade for another quarter or another two years.  


Consider Newtek currently has $19.3 million of “unrealized depreciation” in its current portfolio of non-


performing loans. Had Newtek simply recognized these embedded losses, credit losses running through 


ANII over the last 12 months would have increased by 600%. And this illustration materially 


understates the magnitude of losses Newtek will eventually suffer (or to be more accurate…eventually 


recognize, as the actual losses have already occurred). At 9/30/2019, Newtek had 63 of its 185 


nonperforming loans marked at over 90% of par, with the majority marked at over 95%. This is absurd as 


loss severities on unguaranteed SBA loans will be orders of magnitude larger once these loans are 


ultimately charged off.   


Newtek management will undoubtedly argue that its loss recognition policy is a function of BDC 


accounting. There are two reasons why this is a disingenuous defense. First, Newtek distinguishes itself 


from all other BDCs by including gain on sale revenue in its definition of operating income. It argues 


these gains are central to its business model. We don’t dispute this. But given the horrendous credit 


performance of the thousands of Newtek originated loans, it is just as true that credit losses are a 


central feature of its business model and are an unambiguous drain on cash and capital. An earnings 


definition that includes 100% of gains but defers indefinitely 90% of credit losses is disingenuous and 


misleading.   


Second, Newtek defers loss recognition even when all of the criteria necessary to charge-off a loan exist. 


For example, Newtek currently lists a $4.8 million loan to E & I Holdings, PL & PA Farm Products LLC 


amongst its long list of nonperforming loans. E & I is another loan for which Newtek ended up with 


400% of the credit exposure it expected, as it had to repurchase the guaranteed portion from the SBA 


(presumably due to shoddy underwriting). E & I filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy on December 28, 2015 


and exited bankruptcy on August 1, 2018. As the loan has been on nonaccrual for over four years, any 


cash Newtek received from this borrower would be allocated to writing down the cost basis of the loan. 


As such, we can track the proceeds Newtek would have received from the borrower. With the
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





58 
 


reorganization settled, the progression of the cost basis of this loan (red boxes in Exhibit 34) indicates 


the borrower is paying Newtek about $1,800 per quarter. That equates to 0.15% per year. While we 


don’t have access to the final court settlement, it’s difficult to believe no charge off is warranted for a 


balance that will take 600 years to pay off at the current pace.  


As an aside, we could have included E & I as an example in Section 5 (Stated Book Value has Little 


Connection to Reality). How does a management team that claims it “come(s) up with a price based 


upon discounted cash flow24 justify its “fair value” of $2.8 million for a loan to a recently bankrupt 


borrower that makes payments of $600 per month (blue box)? Newtek makes a mockery of reasonable 


accounting, valuation and financial presentation.   





Exhibit 34: 


Source: Newtek 10Qs and Ks
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





59 
 


Section 7:  


The SBA Has Been Put on Notice to Reign in Newtek 


On November 12, 2019, The Office of Inspector General (IG) completed a report titled “Audit of SBA’s 


Oversight of High-Risk Lenders.”25 The investigation’s objective was to determine whether the SBA 


performed effective oversight of high-risk lenders to identify and mitigate risks. The IG’s report and 


conclusions are definitive, unambiguous, and we believe create material near-, and long-term risks for 


Newtek.  


The audit and subsequent report found that “OCRM (the SBA’s Office of Credit Risk Management) did 


not always perform effective oversite of high-risk lenders to identify and mitigate risks.” Specifically, the 


report found that OCRM did not perform the lender and loan file reviews that most effectively uncover 


abuses. Further, the IG report found OCRM did “not always…communicate loan deficiencies they noted 


during their high-risk lender reviews to SBA approval and purchase loan centers” (the section of the SBA 


that approves and revokes loan guaranties and lenders like Newtek that have been granted delegated 


authority to close loans). The IG found that as a consequence of the deficiencies, “there is an increased 


risk that lenders with repeated identified systematic deficiencies will continue to participate in SBA’s 7(a) 


and 504 loan programs, which could jeopardize the integrity of the programs and increase the risk of 


financial loss to the $120 billion loan portfolio.” In other words, the IG concluded there must be 


processes in place to ensure lenders like Newtek are not permitted to continue participating in and 


jeopardizing the loan guaranty program. 


In its response to the IG report, SBA management agreed with the criticism levied by the Inspector 


General and agreed to implement each of its six recommendations. After studying the lending methods 


and credit performance of Newtek, we struggled to understand how such inadequate lending could be 


tolerated by the SBA. It now appears processes were not previously in place to curb Newtek. Based on 


the IG report, and subsequent changes at the SBA, it appears checks will now be in place to significantly 


curb the risks Newtek’s poor credit performance poses to a program that, if properly administered, will 


funnel capital to deserving borrowers.   


We have delivered documented summaries of our findings to Inspector General Hannibal Ware and 


Assistant Inspector General for Audits Andrea Deadwyler, Steve Bulger, the Administrator for the 


Atlantic Region of the SBA (Newtek’s region), and the office of Representative Judy Chu (D-CA), 


Chairwoman of the House Small Business Subcommittee on Investigations, Oversight and Regulations 


which is charged with oversight of the SBA and the SBA Inspector General. 


Our communication with the various parties charged with oversite of SBA lenders may prove to be 


redundant. Based on the volume of originations and the default rate of the pool of lenders the IG 


studied in the course of its audit, we believe it is possible Newtek was one of the high-risk lenders 


studied that led to the IG report’s conclusions and recommendations. The $1 billion “originated and 


disbursed” by the five lenders on which the IG focused and the “average default rate of 19% for loans 


approved and disbursed in FYs 2015-2017” dramatically narrows down the list of possible subjects. We
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





60 
 


cannot know if Newtek was directly responsible for the report’s finding so we are not definitively 


drawing that conclusion. However, we believe the spike in Newtek loan repurchases and lowered 


origination guidance, during the period in which the SBA was reviewing and commenting on the IG 


report, is unlikely to be a coincidence.
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





61 
 


Section 8:  


Management’s Promotion & Obsession with NEWT’s Stock Price  


Newtek’s CEO seems more interested in managing his stock price than managing his business. We 


believe Mr. Sloane’s rhetoric and investor relations strategies are consistent with a Company that 


highlights manipulated, purposefully misleading non-GAAP financial presentations designed to hide 


actual economics and profitability. In our opinion, Mr. Sloane’s obsession with the valuation of NEWT 


shares is just another indication the Company relies on constant access to the capital markets to keep 


the house of cards standing. 


We encourage investors to listen to archives of earnings calls and conference presentations to acquire a 


flavor for the manner in which Mr. Sloane promotes NEWT’s stock and dismisses reasonable questions. 


Newtek’s efforts to promote its stock are typically found among penny-stock promotions.  


Examples include: 


• Mr. Sloane abruptly scheduled a public conference call the day after Christmas, 2018, during a very 
broad market selloff, to encourage investors to buy the stock. A management team compelled to 
take such an action is one that recognizes the confidence of individual investors is critical to staying 
on their treadmill. On the call Mr. Sloane made the intention of the call clear when he stated, 
“Hopefully a few good trading days to improve final pricing on the final day of the year.”26 This 
would be important to a CEO that starts most communication with the public with a recap of how 
his stock has performed.   
 


• On December 17, 2018, Newtek announced a 300,000 share stock repurchase plan that we was 
meant to encourage investors to buy the stock. We did not believe at the time, nor do we now, that 
Newtek had any intention of letting capital leave its balance sheet considering fresh capital is what is 
needed to prolong its “strategy.” Unsurprisingly, not a single share was repurchased even though 
the stock price continued to decline in the midst of the broad market selloff. Also unsurprisingly, 
Newtek was selling its stock again the following quarter (Q1’19).  
 


• During December 2018, Newtek issued an 8-K to alert investors it had been removed from the 
relatively obscure KBW Nasdaq Financial Sector Dividend Yield Index. We believe the Company’s 8-K 
was meant to suggest the weakness in NEWT’s share price was a technically driven buying 
opportunity. While factually accurate, the suggestion that this was material information requiring a 
Newtek issued 8-K was preposterous. More absurd was Mr. Sloane’s suggestion on a subsequent 
conference call that perhaps they were being eliminated from the Index because they had 
performed too well, “What really made sense was our price was too high relative to the dividend, 
and given that other BDCs, REITs and MLPs are going on hard times, they were trading at significant 
discounts to NAV or higher-yielding alternatives. We might have actually been eliminated from the 
index because of performance.”27
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





62 
 


• Mr. Sloane’s refusal to hire a chief financial officer also points to his need to control the narrative, “I 
will tell you I have, as the primary face of the company, kind of maintained a lot of the Investor 
Relations contacts… I'm good at it, and the company has had good results. So I'm going to be willing 
to make that change when it kind of makes sense... Everyone's been asking for a CFO for 5 years. So I 
think that it's a good question. We don't have one. We can afford it. We don't need it.”28 
 


• Management publishes preposterous statements meant to deceive retail investors into believing 
Newtek is not just a subprime commercial lender, but in fact develops and uses better CRM 
software than Salesforce.com.  


“In addition, we have developed a financial and technology-based business model that enables 


us and our controlled portfolio companies to acquire and process our SMB clients in a cost-


effective manner. This capability is supported in large part by NewTracker®, our patented 


prospect management technology software which is similar to but we believe is better than 


the system popularized by Salesforce.com.”29 


Newtek has also tried to convince investors it is a play on cloud computing! Although Mr. Sloane hinted 
at Newtek’s opportunity to offer cloud solutions for several years, the salesmanship accelerated late in 
2016. On Newtek’s third quarter 2016 conference call, Mr. Sloane proclaimed, “I want to continue to 
point out that we are extremely constructive about the marketplace for selling cloud solutions and 
technology solutions to small- to medium-sized businesses. There is no question, whether you look at 
Gartner, Forrester, every investment bank believes technology and cloud spending is going to continue to 
increase, and there are estimates out there that it would be close to a double spend in three years.”  


And then in December 2016 to an audience of small cap investors at the LD Micro investor conference 
Mr. Sloane promotionally stated, “If you look at Gartner or Forrester studies, there's going to be a huge 
movement to the cloud. And it hasn't even touched the small- and medium-sized business market yet. 
Would we do well as we manage a Tier 3 data center? Extremely well. We answer the phone 24-seven. 
We can compete against Google and Microsoft Azure in this space.”30 Similar promotion about Newtek’s 
opportunity in the cloud became a regular aspect in Newtek communications with investors going 
forward.  


Unsurprisingly, Newtek failed to deliver on the promise of cloud computing. Newtek Technology 
Solutions has been written down from what was once 148% of NEWT’s cost basis to 83% of its cost 
basis. We suspect the true fair value is a fraction of where it is held on the balance sheet today. In fact, 
the performance has been so poor that even CEO Sloane acknowledged the disappointment, 
proclaiming on a recent call, “Newtek Technology Solutions, although we haven't talked about it for a 
while, one of my investors likes to affectionately refer to me as Jeff Bezos as a joke because this has been 
a tough business for us for a long period of time.”31  


Exhibit 35: The Cloud Authority?
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





63 
 


 
Source: Newtek television commercial
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





64 
 


Section 9:  


Lack of Independent Board Oversight and a Tier 3 Auditor 


For the last fourteen years, Newtek’s auditor has been RSM US, LLP. The business model of RSM 


provides little oversight to marginal accountants who may not have the qualifications to find 


employment at more reputable firms. In light of Newtek’s seemingly aggressive and subjective 


accounting policies, we find it disturbing that RSM was recently sanctioned for its failure to oversee the 


conduct of its accountants32 and appears to be the go-to firm for subprime finance companies utilizing 


“non-traditional” accounting policies.33  


Newtek’s Board is comprised of just five members, two of whom are non-independent directors (the 


CEO and the Chief Lending Officer). Of the three “independent directors, Mr. Salvatore Mulia has 


partnered with Mr. Sloane for 15 years. In future reports, we will delve into the realm of BDC conflicts 


between Board members, related executives and control companies. As a preview, Mr. Sloane’s brother, 


Warren, is employed by a Newtek controlled company and was paid at least $120,000 in 2017, while his 


nephew, Kyle was paid at least $120,000 last year by Newtek’s subsidiaries. Mr. Sloane’s relatives may 


have been paid much more than $120,000, but that figure is the threshold trigger requiring disclosure.  


As discussed briefly in Section 7, Newtek’s aggressive and misleading accounting may in part be enabled 


by Mr. Sloane’s refusal to hire a Chief Financial Officer. In lieu of a CFO, its Chief Accounting Officer 


reports its finances. Yet even the CAO role appears unstable after Jennifer Eddelson abruptly resigned in 


2019 and was replaced by her 33-year-old subordinate. Ms. Eddelson’s departure followed the abrupt 


resignation of her husband, Adam, who served as the controller of multiple Newtek unconsolidated 


subsidiaries.34 Oddly, despite the 2019 proxy disclosing Mr. Eddelson resignation, he still lists Newtek as 


his employer.35
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





65 
 











1 Newtek Business Services Corp. Analyst and Investor Day; June 27, 2019 
2 We document that NEWT has funded current dividend payments with funds raised from new investors 
via its at-the-market equity selling plan as well as the debt the Company can raise as a direct result of 
the equity it sells. 
3 Pages 45-121 here: https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-03/Small_Business_Act.pdf 
4 https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-officers-and-employees-indiana-loan-packager-and-servicer-
charged-alleged-10-million 
5 S&P Global 
6 Small Business Credit Availability Act. Page 1999 here: 
https://docs.house.gov/billsthisweek/20180319/BILLS-115SAHR1625-RCP115-66.pdf 
7 Newtek September 30, 2019 10Q 
8 The only reason one of these SBA non-guaranteed loans could conceivably be worth more than par 
would be if the credit has improved materially from when the loan was made or the loan carries a fixed 
rate & prepayment protections in an environment of falling rates. None of these circumstances prevail.  
9 Newtek Third Quarter 2019 Financial Results Conference Call deck; page 26 
10 https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-11/SBA-OIG-Report-20-
03.pdf?utm_source=January+21%2C+2020+Daily&utm_campaign=061319+Daily&utm_medium=email  
11 ibid 
12 Included in Newtek’s 2014 10K. and in every 10K and 10Q since March 15, 2016  
13 Presentation by Barry Sloane at the LD Micro Main Event; December 7, 2016 
14 https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2019-161  
15 RSM audits World Acceptance Corporation (WRLD) which utilizes the consumer unfriendly Rule of 78s 
to calculate interest on consumer debt, Ebix, Inc. (EBIX) has been investigated by the European 
Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission over various accounting and tax practices, 
Medley Management which manages credit impaired Medley Capital and has been sued by multiple 
parties for the ill-gotten gains of its twin brother founders (see: 
https://www.institutionalinvestor.com/article/b1htf1chpg537f/Two-Harvard-Twins-No-Not-Those-
Twins-Run-One-of-the-World-s-Worst-BDCs-They-re-About-to-Get-Rich) among other questionable 
financial services focused businesses.  
16 Adam resigned in 2018 according to the 2019 proxy 
17 https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-eddelson-98347714a 


18 Newtek Third Quarter 2019 Financial Results Conference Call deck; page 20 
19 https://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/03/business/03gret.html  
20 pages 45 to 121 https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-03/Small_Business_Act.pdf 
21 Third quarter, 2019 Conference Call Transcript; 11/7/2019 
22 Newtek Third Quarter 2019 Financial Results Conference Call deck; page 35 
23 S&P Global 
24 Third quarter, 2019 Conference Call Transcript; 11/7/2019 


 



https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-03/Small_Business_Act.pdf

https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-officers-and-employees-indiana-loan-packager-and-servicer-charged-alleged-10-million

https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/former-officers-and-employees-indiana-loan-packager-and-servicer-charged-alleged-10-million

https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-11/SBA-OIG-Report-20-03.pdf?utm_source=January+21%2C+2020+Daily&utm_campaign=061319+Daily&utm_medium=email

https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-11/SBA-OIG-Report-20-03.pdf?utm_source=January+21%2C+2020+Daily&utm_campaign=061319+Daily&utm_medium=email

https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2019-161

https://www.institutionalinvestor.com/article/b1htf1chpg537f/Two-Harvard-Twins-No-Not-Those-Twins-Run-One-of-the-World-s-Worst-BDCs-They-re-About-to-Get-Rich

https://www.institutionalinvestor.com/article/b1htf1chpg537f/Two-Harvard-Twins-No-Not-Those-Twins-Run-One-of-the-World-s-Worst-BDCs-They-re-About-to-Get-Rich

https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-eddelson-98347714a

https://www.nytimes.com/2008/08/03/business/03gret.html

https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-03/Small_Business_Act.pdf
COPPERFIELD RESEARCH 


------------------------------------------------------------------------ 





66 
 


 
25 https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-11/SBA-OIG-Report-20-
03.pdf?utm_source=January+21%2C+2020+Daily&utm_campaign=061319+Daily&utm_medium=email  
26 12/26/2018 Conference Call Transcript 
27 ibid 
28 Transcript of Newtek Business Services Corp. Analyst and Investor Day; 6/24/2019 
29 See note xiii 
30 Presentation by Barry Sloane at the LD Micro Main Event; December 7, 2016 
31 Third quarter, 2019 Conference Call Transcript; 11/7/2019 
32 https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2019-161 
33 RSM audits World Acceptance Corporation (WRLD) which utilizes the consumer unfriendly Rule of 78s 
to calculate interest on consumer debt, Ebix, Inc. (EBIX) has been investigated by the European 
Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission over various accounting and tax practices, 
Medley Management which manages credit impaired Medley Capital and has been sued by multiple 
parties for the ill-gotten gains of its twin brother founders (see: 
https://www.institutionalinvestor.com/article/b1htf1chpg537f/Two-Harvard-Twins-No-Not-Those-
Twins-Run-One-of-the-World-s-Worst-BDCs-They-re-About-to-Get-Rich) among other questionable 
financial services focused businesses.  
34 Adam resigned in 2018 according to the 2019 proxy 
35 https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-eddelson-98347714a 


 



https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-11/SBA-OIG-Report-20-03.pdf?utm_source=January+21%2C+2020+Daily&utm_campaign=061319+Daily&utm_medium=email

https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/2019-11/SBA-OIG-Report-20-03.pdf?utm_source=January+21%2C+2020+Daily&utm_campaign=061319+Daily&utm_medium=email

https://www.sec.gov/news/press-release/2019-161

https://www.institutionalinvestor.com/article/b1htf1chpg537f/Two-Harvard-Twins-No-Not-Those-Twins-Run-One-of-the-World-s-Worst-BDCs-They-re-About-to-Get-Rich

https://www.institutionalinvestor.com/article/b1htf1chpg537f/Two-Harvard-Twins-No-Not-Those-Twins-Run-One-of-the-World-s-Worst-BDCs-They-re-About-to-Get-Rich

https://www.linkedin.com/in/adam-eddelson-98347714a
