Disclaimer 
 
By downloading from or viewing material on this website you agree to the following Terms of Service. Use of Culper Research's ("Culper") 
research is at your own risk. In no event should Culper or any affiliated party be liable for any direct or indirect trading losses caused by any 
information on this site. You further agree to do your own research and due diligence, consult your own financial, legal, and tax advisors 
before making any investment decision with respect to transacting in any securities covered herein. You should assume that Culper (possibly 
along with or through our members, partners, affiliates, employees, and/or consultants) along with our clients and/or investors has a 
position in any securities covered herein. Following publication of any research, we intend to continue transacting in the securities covered 
herein, and we may be long, short, or neutral at any time hereafter regardless of our initial recommendation, conclusions, or opinions. 
Research is not investment advice nor a recommendation or solicitation to buy securities. To the best of our ability and belief, all 
information contained herein is accurate and reliable, and has been obtained from public sources we believe to be accurate and reliable, 
and who are not insiders or connected persons of the securities covered herein or who may otherwise owe any fiduciary duty or duty of 
confidentiality to the issuer. However, such information is presented “as is,” without warranty of any kind – whether express or implied. 
Culper makes no representation, express or implied, as to the accuracy, timeliness, or completeness of any such information or with regard 
to the results to be obtained from its use. Research may contain forward-looking statements, estimates, projections, and opinions with 
respect to among other things, certain accounting, legal, and regulatory issues the issuer faces and the potential impact of those issues on 
its future business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as more generally, the issuer’s anticipated operating performance, 
access to capital markets, market conditions, assets and liabilities. Such statements, estimates, projections and opinions may prove to be 
substantially inaccurate and are inherently subject to significant risks and uncertainties beyond Culper's control. All expressions of opinion 
are subject to change without notice, and Culper does not undertake to update or supplement this report or any of the information 
contained herein. You agree that the information on this website is copyrighted, and you therefore agree not to distribute this information 
(whether the downloaded file, copies / images / reproductions, or the link to these files) in any manner other than by providing the following 
link — http://www.culperresearch.com The failure of Culper to exercise or enforce any right or provision of these Terms of Service shall 
not constitute a waiver of this right or provision. If any provision of these Terms of Service is found by a court of competent jurisdiction to 
be invalid, the parties nevertheless agree that the court should endeavor to give effect to the parties’ intentions as reflected in the provision 
and rule that the other provisions of these Terms of Service remain in full force and effect, in particular as to this governing law and 
jurisdiction provision. You agree that regardless of any statute or law to the contrary, any claim or cause of action arising out of or related 
to use of this website or the material herein must be filed within one (1) year after such claim or cause of action arose or be forever barred.
Culper Research Blink Charging Co (NASDAQ:BLNK) August 25, 2020 


2 
 


Blink Charging Co (BLNK): Our Response to the C-Suite Memo 
 
We issued our original report on Blink Charging (“BLNK, “Blink”, “the Company”) on August 19th. Yesterday, Blink’s 
Chairman and CEO Michael Farkas wrote an emotionally charged memo which ignored large portions of our 
findings, while offering incomplete responses to the rest.  
 
We find Farkas’s “commitment” to Blink laughable: “Why discriminate? I fuel all cars” 
 
Farkas invoked his dedication to the Company in numerous seemingly heartfelt pleas to Blink shareholders. As 
apparent proof of such dedication, he claimed that “my family can attest that there have been times during the 
past ten years where I put the payroll of the Company before my family’s living expenses (just ask my ex-wife).” 
In light of this claim to tremendous self-sacrifice, we remind investors that from 2014 through 2019, Farkas 
collected over $7.9 million in total compensation from Blink. He further claimed that:  


 
“I have put blood, sweat and tears into growing this Company” 
 
“my whole entire life has been invested in this Company,” 
 
“I have the utmost dedication to our Company,” and 
 
“…Blink has been my priority.” 


 
Meanwhile, we have discovered that Farkas is running a separate gasoline fueling business – “EzFill” – that has 
remained undisclosed to Blink investors. Blink insiders, namely the Company’s General Counsel and In House 
Counsel, are entangled with Farkas in this business, as State of Florida business records show: 
 







https://img1.wsimg.com/blobby/go/cc91fda7-4669-4d1b-81ce-a0b8d77f25ab/downloads/Culper_BLNK_8-19-2020.pdf?ver=1597843273545

https://ir.blinkcharging.com/news-events/c-suite-memo

https://opencorporates.com/companies/us_fl/F19000002106

http://search.sunbiz.org/Inquiry/CorporationSearch/SearchResultDetail?inquirytype=EntityName&directionType=Initial&searchNameOrder=EZFILLHOLDINGS%20F190000021060&aggregateId=forp-f19000002106-c23144a2-2fce-485d-8c2b-c34ae9869a06&searchTerm=ezfill%20holdings&listNameOrder=EZFILLHOLDINGS%20F190000021060
Culper Research Blink Charging Co (NASDAQ:BLNK) August 25, 2020 


3 
 





 
 
As shown, in addition to Farkas’s role as President, both Yechiel Baron and Aviv Hillo are listed as officers at EzFill. 
Baron is Blink’s in-house counsel, and Hillo is Blink’s general counsel. EzFill claims to be “a convenient gas delivery 
service.” In short, the business owns a fleet of pickup trucks carrying gas which can be pumped into people’s cars 
on-the-go. Farkas boasted on Facebook this June that he is “planning to go public end of summer.” This 
undisclosed significant business interest calls into question Farkas’s claim of “utmost dedication” to Blink. In his 
own words, “Why discriminate? I fuel all cars.”  
 



https://ezfillapp.com/
Culper Research Blink Charging Co (NASDAQ:BLNK) August 25, 2020 


4 
 








Why hasn’t Blink executive involvement 
in EzFill ever been disclosed to investors?
Culper Research Blink Charging Co (NASDAQ:BLNK) August 25, 2020 


5 
 


Blink’s claimed network of over 15,000 chargers 
 
On the Company’s charging station count, Farkas relies on the same language we cited from the Company’s 10-Q, 
which confirms that we are correct. The Company’s 8,166 residential stations are non-networked. However, 
Blink’s press releases and marketing materials have created the false impression that these residential chargers 
are networked and accessible. In the Company’s March 2020 press release, Blink stated that “EV drivers [can] 
easily charge at any of its 15,000 charging [sic].” As per our original report, as the majority of the Company’s 
historically deployed stations are residential stations, EV drivers obviously cannot “easily charge” at any of these 
residential stations without committing trespassing and theft. We stand by our statements. 
 
Charger maintenance, functionality, and usage 
 
Blink cites its “multiple business models” as a defense for decrepit stations, as Blink has “no control over those 
units owned by its customers.” However, as profiled in our original report, Blink nevertheless lists many of these 
units on its network map and counts them towards its claim of “over 15,000” chargers at which EV drivers can 
“easily charge.” We also utilized the Company’s own financial statements in our analysis of charger utilization, 
which Farkas once again conspicuously refused to address in his memo. We stand by to our original analysis 
suggesting that the Company’s chargers sit almost entirely unused with utilization of just 0.39% to 2.65%. 
 
Farkas’s sordid business history 
 
Farkas distances himself from Skyway by claiming that he was “simply a shareholder in Skyway.” On the face of it, 
we find it indicative that Farkas himself compared his previous investment experience as akin to having invested 
in Enron or with Bernie Madoff, in and of itself a stark contrast to Blink’s historical claims that Farkas had built “a 
track record as a successful principal investor across a variety of industries.” Regardless, as we noted in our original 
report, Skyway shared a physical office with Farkas, while Farkas was at one time a majority owner in the company; 
it wasn’t as if Farkas merely bought a handful of shares in an E-Trade account. 
 
Similarly, Farkas distances himself from Red Sea by claiming that he was never “remotely connected with it or 
known anything about the company or their principals [sic].” We find this difficult to believe, given that Farkas 
was named as a co-defendant alongside Red Sea in a lawsuit alleging that they orchestrated the Skyway scheme: 
 


 
 
Our report also highlighted the Company’s historical press release claims. None of these apparently failed or 
otherwise unfulfilled projects were addressed in the memo. Finally, on the question of the Company’s ultimate 
ability to generate cash, we again cited the Company’s own disclosures to calculate that Blink’s owned chargers 
must maintain 60% utilization merely to break even over a 10-year life. Once again, Farkas chose not to address 
this analysis, but ignore it in favor of name-calling. We stand by our original analysis. 



http://online.wsj.com/public/resources/documents/smarchant-oct08edition-05012009.pdf?mod=article_inline
